Live from [music] New York City for our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg's The Fed
Decides starts right now.
>> This is a special edition of Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Tom Keene. Bloomberg
Surveillance, The Fed Decides.
>> Good afternoon live on Bloomberg
Television and radio counting down to
another Fed rate decision. Scarlet Fu in
the hot seat. Tom Keene, Jonathan Ferro
both off today for a truly revolutionary
meeting, [music] something that really
doesn't happen very often. This is a
historic day when it comes to a Federal
Reserve meeting given the fact that
there have only [music] been four chairs
of the Federal Reserve over the past 30
years. Make it five. Enter Kevin Warsh.
This is a new day and a new [music] head
of the Federal Reserve.
>> new era when it comes to what's
happening with the economy, right? We're
making this change from an idea where
people thought the Federal Reserve was
going to cut rates or perhaps the
Federal Reserve hiking [music] rates. So
it comes at this crucial time. There's
no question that rates are going to stay
unchanged for this meeting. So it all
comes down to what he says, how he
communicates, [music] and how long he
talks for.
>> Yeah, that's some of the big questions
that people have. Exactly that, how many
words, how many questions, etc. Will
they remove the easing bias? Of course,
that's going to be a big one. Will there
be a dot plot? If so, will he have a dot
on that plot? And how long the statement
will be as you mentioned before. This
will set the tone potentially at [music]
a time when the market is expecting him
to have something of a dovish tilt. How
much is that the potential surprise?
>> Absolutely. Markets are heading into
this with the S&P 500, the Dow,
the Nasdaq all near record highs.
They've been little changed bouncing
around all day. Yields have come down as
oil prices
>> [music]
>> have really fallen following the
announcement of an interim peace deal
between Iran and the US. We don't know
what that peace [music] deal looks like.
We don't have the details. Nothing's
been published, but right now markets
are taking it.
>> Right now we [music] see the S&P as
Scarlet mentioning down just a touch.
The Nasdaq though really had been
leading the charge. The Russell 2000
though getting a boost as people take a
look at the bond space, yields just
slightly [music] higher as they look
towards some guidance at least in the
front end 4.06%
at the long end getting a bid with a one
basis point decline [music] on the
30-year. And really, as Scarlet was
mentioning, what we are seeing in the
oil space has infiltrated through
everything as we talk about a potential
deal that could get signed in the next
couple of days hanging out there around
that $76 a barrel level on New York
crude. Coming up shortly, we've got JP
Morgan's Bob Michele, Sachin
Subajrajappa and Bank of America's
Aditiya Bhave. They will be taking us up
to that Fed rate decision at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern. Then we get immediate reaction
from former Fed Vice Chair Rich Clarida,
Diane Swonk of KPMG, and Deutsche Bank's
Matt Luzzetti. And finally, after the
fireworks, breaking it all down, who is
Fed Chair Kevin Warsh will be speaking
with Citi Group's Kate Moore, Jim Bianco
of Bianco Research, and Stephanie Roth
of Wolfe Research, as well as
BlackRock's Jeffrey Rosenberg. Joining
us now, I'm so glad to say, is Bob
Michele of JP Morgan.
>> Bob, always great to see you. Thank you
for being here.
>> Fantastic to be here. It's a historic
day.
>> It is a historic day. What do you think
is the biggest question that could be
answered at today's meeting?
>> Um I think the question that everyone is
wondering, he talks about regime change.
What does that actually mean? Does he
have a framework that he wants to put in
place at the Fed? Is he willing to give
us some indication of what that could
be? Or is he just going to try to get
through this meeting without any
controversy, throw his dot in, kind of
no change and sort of the average, be
very bland during the press conference,
and then move on.
>> How confident are you that whatever he
says, he will be speaking on behalf of
the committee?
>> Well, I think we'll have to watch that.
The good news is we do get a dot plot,
so we'll see the dispersion of dots.
We'll be able to match his comments to
the dispersion of dots, and see if if
telling a narrative that explains it.
Look, I think there are a lot of
questions about a regime change. I think
what's important to remember, the
Federal Reserve Act of 1913 is 113 years
old. Yeah, the objectives of full
employment and price stability make
sense, but it needs to be modernized and
updated every so often. So, he is
certainly entitled to take a fresh look
at it, come up with suggestions. I don't
think you do that at the first meeting,
though.
>> You kind of set the tone and you know,
kind of bring people on board. How do
you think he will perform for the
president? Because he was President
Trump's pick, he comes out of central
casting as the president likes to say,
and to some extent part of his role, at
least according to the White House, is
to say stuff that soothes the president.
>> Um, he's destined to disappoint. Uh, it
can't work out any other way. If you
look at the economy right now, it's
doing great, and we're going to see that
in the summary of economic projections.
They're probably going to lower
unemployment and raise inflation. It
will all be fine, but we have to accept
the economy's in pretty good shape.
That's not an economy where you cut
rates. So, you're not cutting rates. I'm
interested to see for the end of 2026,
how many dots are there for rate hikes?
Do you get two or three? So, the
president's not going to like that. The
sequence of events that would cause him
to cut rates over the next 6 to 9
months, nobody should want to should
want that. It will likely mean that
there's problems somewhere in the
economy, that unemployment is going up,
that something's stagnating. That's not
a healthy economy, and if he has to cut
rates in that kind of environment, the
president won't be happy with the
macroeconomic environment.
>> One thing that's marked some of the
recent meetings has been the dissents.
We've seen dissents for the first time
and in the greatest pace going back a
number of decades. Do you expect
dissents at this meeting? Do you think
that that would be really notable?
>> It depends how the post meeting
statement is curated. If they just drop
the easing bias, then I think you'll be
able to shift the dissents that existed
to no rate cut. I think we'll see 12-0
uh for no rate cut and no dissents. If
they leave in kind of fuzzy language, um
I think you could see a couple dissents
that indicate higher rates. But, I don't
expect any dissents. I think you just
drop the easing bias, 12-0, move on.
>> What's the bias in markets in terms of
whether this is going to be a hawkish or
dovish kind of read? I mean, right now
it seems like people are expecting a
status quo. At least we've seen the bond
market really do very little over the
past uh since the last Fed meeting on
April 29th. Do you expect people to be
more surprised by a hawkish tilt given
some of the political discussion that
Scarlet was mentioning?
>> Um I think the market would be equally
surprised by either a hawkish tilt or
dovish tilt. I think everyone sees the
need to do nothing. Just leave rates
where they are, see if the MOU in the
Middle East actually holds through the
weekend, gets signed, where oil settles,
how the economy adjusts, all that. We
still have tariffs brewing in the
background. We move to section tariffs.
How does all of that happen? I think the
the market participants would just be
happy to see that play out. If they see
a hawkish tilt, they're going to think
that's premature. I think they'll get
wary that the Fed is seeing something
they're not. And if they see a dovish
tilt, they're just going to poopoo it as
that's yesterday's news. What's the
matter with the Fed? Maybe Warsh is
right, it needs some modernization.
>> In Kevin Warsh's confirmation hearing,
he said inflation is a choice. What did
he mean by that? And how do you think he
applies that thinking?
>> Well, I think as chair of the Federal
Reserve, he's absolutely right.
Inflation are prices that are
denominated in money. If you want to go
out there and increase the money supply
and start printing money again and
distributing through the system, you
could live with higher inflation. You'll
have much higher growth, but prices will
go up. If you want to start draining
liquidity from the system, you want to
do things like shrink the size of the
balance sheet, then you're going to
moderate inflation quite a bit. Yeah, it
could have an adverse reaction to the
economy and to the markets. It depends
how much how quickly.
>> Kevin Warsh was Fed governor from 2006
to 2011, so up to during and after the
great financial crisis and was pretty
vocal as a hawk. Or do you think that's
the case? Is Is that the right
characterization or was he hawkish for
that moment at that time when the
economy looked like that?
>> So, here two interesting fun facts. One,
the dots came in in 2012, so he never
did the dots. This would be new to him.
How can you just not do it without even
trying it? And two, he never overlapped
with anyone who's on the FOMC now.
Um, he left right as Williams was going
on. They never attended a meeting
together, a mere technicality. Um, so I
I think he's in a curious spot right
now.
>> As a bond investor, given that on one
side you see a lot of froth in the
markets and the other side people say,
well, rates might be slightly
restrictive although probably neutral
right now.
How are you navigating that? I mean, do
you still see bonds as a really
attractive investment both in the
corporate space with spreads at some of
the lowest you've seen in a long time
and given yields that have really
remained tame given some of the
speculation around inflation?
>> So, 4 months ago the 10-year was 390.
Last month, it was
470.
You had a dramatic repricing. You have
to understand the bond market's
different at 470 than at 390. So, there
has been some repricing that's gone on.
The easing bias has been removed until
two one or two rate hikes over the next
year or so are priced into the market. I
think the market's in great shape right
now. I don't even want to hear about the
10-year until rates get to four and five
eights. Then we can evaluate whether
there's something happening that will
take them higher. Otherwise, they're
with 100 basis points of the fed funds
rate, that's fine. And on the other
side, is it 420? Is it 430? Pick your
retracement level. You can get down
there realistically. Through that, you
have to reevaluate.
>> Bob, Michael, you're sticking with us.
We'll continue the conversation in just
a moment. Coming up, Subadra Rajappa of
SocGen, Bank of America's Aditi Bahlave,
both of them will be joining us. That
[music] conversation coming up next.
This is Bloomberg.
>> I think Kevin [music] Warsh has a has a
has a dilemma on his hands.
>> Once you're in that seat, it's a lot
different.
>> think he's going to want to rock the
committee.
>> The Fed clearly has a pretty complicated
um dynamic.
>> You do have this higher resting heart
rate for inflation.
>> We have a labor market that looks
stable, but feels tighter.
>> The Fed [music] is uh you know, is going
to be um careful, you know, not to um
overreact.
>> We need to see the Fed remove the easing
bias.
>> We're not going to get a rate cut
anytime soon.
>> Most Fed officials, of course, are going
to be fine leaving [music] rates as they
are.
>> I think the Fed will do what they can to
be on hold.
>> They're just on hold.
>> The Fed will remain on hold.
>> It's all going to be about
communications.
>> The Fed will do what they can to leave
flexibility in the statements.
>> And it
creates sometimes a bit more confusion.
>> If they put the dot plot out, it's going
[music] to give some indication.
>> There is always the chance that it could
be drastically different.
>> I don't know how much fundamental change
there's going to be.
>> This is countdown to the Fed decides on
[music] Bloomberg Television and radio.
I'm Lisa Abramowicz as everyone talks
dots and gets excited when people start
talking about what we could potentially
see change in communication. Let's take
a look quick look at markets. Markets
are in a waiting zone and landing zone
as they await for Fed chair Kevin Warsh
to step to the podium for the first time
at the head of the US Central Bank. S&P
futures is a little bit lower. The
Russell 2000 [music]
doing better as people anticipate maybe
a little bit of relief when it comes to
not necessarily endorsing the idea of a
rate hike. When you take a look at the
bond space,
>> [music]
>> it is remarkable to see how it stable
the bond market has been going back to
the last Fed meeting on April 29th.
[music]
At that day, the 10-year yield 4.43%.
Today, where is that yield? 4.43%. We've
done nothing since April 29th till today
with the move index falling to real
lows.
>> Yeah, it's all a matter of what he says
and how he says it. And I did see that
you kind of paused before [music] you
said his name, Kevin Warsh, because
we're so used to saying Fed chair Jay
Powell. Jay Powell is still a part of
this Fed board. Let's not forget, right?
Because he stepped down as [music]
chair, but he's still very much a member
of the board. He has not stepped down
from that position and in part because
he's worried about the Fed's
independence.
>> Yeah, so what will it take for him to
step away? Will he make an appearance
[music] in any capacity? Where will his
dot be? Governor Powell. Meanwhile, we
are looking at an oil market that has
dictated so much of this. How do they
message oil given the fact [music]
that ultimately it is coming in in terms
of the pricing and potentially could be
chalked up as just a transitory issue.
Joining us now [music] is Subadra
Rajappa of Societe Generale. Subadra,
great to have you on the show. Thank you
so much for being here. I want to start
with what you're expecting today in
terms of the length, in terms of the
questions, in terms of the tone for the
new Kevin Warsh Fed Reserve.
>> So,
the economy is in a sweet spot and this
is a really a good time for for Warsh to
start his new job.
We've seen a very sharp decline in oil
prices, yields have come off the highs,
equity markets are near all-time highs,
risk sentiment is is extremely positive.
So, for the most part, I think we're not
really expecting a lot of changes. I
think they might the summary of economic
projections might show
modestly higher inflation
as well as modestly lower unemployment
rate.
But, for for
the markets, I think what's really going
to be market moving is what we see in
the dot. Is there going to be much more
of of a bias towards hikes from the rest
of the committee versus where Kevin
Warsh's dot would be and whether he we
even get a dot from from from Chair
Warsh. And the next thing that I'll be
watching to see is how long the the
press conference is. Is it going to be a
short conference or is he going to spend
45 minutes like Powell did when he was
chair?
>> How much do they bring up oil prices,
Subadra? I look at WTI and on April
29th, it was at $100 a barrel. Today,
it's about 76 and of course this is very
much in flux given what's going to
happen or what's expected to happen by
the end of this week.
>> Oil prices are very very important
because that really
pegs the narrative of headline inflation
or inflation in general being somewhat
transitory on the on the upside on on
the headline part. Core inflation, of
course, is starting to trend higher. I
mean, I think we're going to get core
PCE next year showing next week, I
should say, showing a much hotter print.
So, the trajectory for inflation for the
remainder of the year is going to be on
the on the hotter side. The fact that
we're we're starting to see lower oil
prices is definitely a step in the right
direction to reinforce that transitory
narrative.
>> You've said the word transitory, we've
heard it a couple of times so far this
hour, but is that something that the Fed
can actually use in its language because
it it's become kind of a dirty word in
in in
the Fed world?
>> So if you kind of step back and look at
geopolitical advances in the past, we've
always seen that the rise in oil prices
tends to be somewhat temporary. They
feed through the headline inflation
tends to be somewhat temporary as well.
So in that sort of context, it makes
sense that we're able to look past the
rise in headline inflation. The real
concern for the Fed is of course core
PCE. Core inflation has been trending
higher, probably remains between 3 and 3
and 1/2% or 3 and 1/4 and 3 and 1/2% for
the for the remainder of the year. And
that really argues for the Fed to keep
policy on hold not just for this year,
but well into next year as well. So it's
going to be a prolonged period of Fed on
hold
and with no real case for the Fed to
rush into heights.
>> But Michael still alongside us, is the
oil shock transitory and are we seeing
that essentially getting eased through
the market?
>> Um for sure the market is far more
focused on the Middle East and oil than
it is on the Federal Reserve. So you
just have to accept that. Is it
transitory? Somewhat. I don't think
we're going back to $60 a barrel. Do we
settle in around $80 a barrel? Are we
going to find that it takes a while to
get the oil and natural gas out of the
Middle East to where it's much needed?
Yeah, it probably will take some time. I
don't think we go back up to 100, but
somewhere around 80 is a more modest
headwind than we've seen, but something
higher than what existed at $60 a
barrel.
>> There's also some pretty big chip
inflation as well as inflation in the
pocketbooks of anybody who invested in
SpaceX who seem to be doing well today
and maybe not withstanding. Subadra,
from your perspective, do you expect any
commentary from the Federal Reserve
about how broad-based the inflation is?
I mean, we saw retail sales today. It
was broad-based. It wasn't just coming
from oil.
>> Absolutely, and I think that that is
something that we should all be paying
close attention to because it's headline
inflation, it's core inflation, it's
goods inflation,
as well as services inflation on the on
the on the core side. So, it's
definitely something that we should be
talking about. Inflation expectations,
however, have been somewhat contained.
If anything, we've seen a significant
decline in inflation expectations
over the over the last few trading days
with the with the decline in in oil
prices. So, but but inflation in
general, I think it's going to be the
key topic that Woz is going to be
questioned on, and that's really where
we'll be paying close attention to see
if he actually focuses on the the
trimmed mean measures as opposed to
the the headline inflation or core
inflation
specifics. So, the trimmed mean measure
might might suggest that he's looking to
be somewhat more on the dovish side.
Again, we don't really expect that he's
going to show a dovish bias, but that's
something that I'll be paying attention
to.
>> Subadra Rajappa, thank you so much for
your insights. I'm sure we'll be
catching up with you post Kevin Warsh
debut. Joining us now is Aditya Bhave of
Bank of America. As we do look ahead
about 7 minutes and a change to that
decision, what are you expecting today?
>> Good afternoon. Thanks for having me on.
So, we think the easing bias will be
removed from the forward guidance
language in the statement. We think the
dot plot won't show any policy action
this year, so the Fed is on hold. An
interesting question is how many people
will show hikes this year. We've ball
parked it at three, but if it's
significantly above or below that
number, I think that could be viewed as
hawkish or dovish. And then most
importantly, what is Kevin Warsh going
to say? We think he's going to lean
dovish relative to the rest of the
committee. Honestly, I think he could
just copy paste his his comments from
his nomination testimony, which were
viewed as slightly dovish at the time
and I think given the data flow, they
would [snorts] be a little bit more
dovish now. He can take a victory lap on
his comment that you should look through
supply shocks with oil prices falling.
He could continue to emphasize the
trimmed mean because that really hasn't
moved in the last couple months even
though core PCE has moved up.
>> What is he likely to say about AI
disinflation? This is one of his talking
points where um perhaps we're not
factoring in uh just how much
productivity gains uh AI will usher in.
>> I think he can stick with the story. We
need to make a forward-looking bet on
this according to Warsh and I don't
think that really changes from 2 months
ago, right? It's something that he's
been clear is still in the pipeline.
We're probably not going to see it for a
while, but he's saying we should be
forward-looking about it. So, that part
of the story doesn't need to change. The
challenge for him will be that before we
get there, we're now looking at a period
of significant overshoot in inflation
and how much tolerance does the
committee have for that sort of
overshoot? So, even if you told me that
inflation's going back to 2% 2 years
down the line, what's happening in those
intervening 2 years? Are we averaging
3%? 3.5%? And what does that mean for
the cumulative overshoot since 2021?
>> Do we think also that under Kevin Warsh
uh the FOMC the Fed is going to be
looking more carefully at new data sets?
Perhaps data sets that the Fed started
to rely on during the government
shutdown when we couldn't really look at
the traditional measures for an accurate
reflection of the economy.
>> He certainly talked about measuring
inflation better.
Alternative data sets are not
necessarily better data sets, and I
think that's the sell that he has to
make to the committee. So, for example,
a lot of the old data that we looked at
during the pandemic was useful for a
brief period of time, and then after
that, it actually became not very useful
at all. So, it's a matter of finding
better data, not just different data.
>> Bob Michele still here alongside us.
Bob, are you expecting any commentary
about AI at all from this Fed chair,
given the fact that there's been a lot
of questions both about the
disinflationary aspect of this, as well
as potentially financial security?
>> Um I think he should be questioned on
it. And when I listened to Christine
Lagarde earlier today, she talked a lot
about AI and the threat to financial
stability. And what she meant was that
if it gets into the banking system and
creates another financial crisis, what
do you do? How do you deal with it? So,
central bankers have to start thinking
about that. They're there to backstop
the banking system, and this is one of
the great existential threats to the
banking system.
>> And this would be a Fed chair that comes
in after being a governor at a time of
the last financial crisis. Aditi, are
you expecting any kind of nod to that
type of backdrop, given exactly what
Bob's talking about, very much front and
center for a lot of bankers?
>> Right, so that's a regulatory issue. I
think it's kind of more of a medium-term
issue. I don't know it necessarily gets
addressed at the June meeting. Let's not
forget, he's only been in the seat for
less than 4 weeks now. So, it's probably
something that the Fed is discussing. I
don't think he's going to be ready to
talk about that just yet.
>> Aditi Bahave, thank you so much for your
thoughts as we count you down to that
Fed decision, about 3 minutes away. Bob,
that is going to be a big issue. And the
fact that he is new, I mean, this is the
other thing. He is new. He is coming in.
And the market tends to test a Federal
Reserve chair. What do you think is the
biggest test for him right now?
Inflation, financial security, or just
getting the whole committee together?
>> I think he should be asked if the
expected disinflation is transitory.
There's a broad CAPEX cycle underway
globally. Everyone talks about AI. Well,
every major sovereign is interested in
investing in AI and the power grid they
need to power it. You tell me a
sovereign that's also not interested in
border security and investing in its
defense. You tell me a sovereign that's
not also invested in energy security and
investing in that. There are three
massive CAPEX programs underway globally
that will need capital, compete for
capital, and create a cost for that
capital.
>> And certainly not limited to the US. We
can see this around the world as well.
What kind of commentary have we gotten
from other central bankers? You
mentioned Christine Lagarde talking
about um cybersecurity in in the context
of it being a risk to the financial
system, but what can we glean from how
other policymakers are thinking about
this?
>> I think they're all gathering
information. I think they're worried.
ADTI said it's a regulatory issue. I
would would remind everyone that housing
was also regulated going into the GFC
and yet it spilled into the financial
system. I think what Christine Lagarde
is doing is she's thinking ahead. She's
looking to be preemptive. If something
does happen that's unforeseen, that we
don't know today, how are we prepared to
deal with it? I think every central
banker is thinking through that. Not
many have been as public as she's
become.
>> But Michael, you're going to stick with
us as we wait for that decision. We are
about a minute and a half away. You
could see markets treading water ahead
of that score. It seems like people
don't know what to do given the
buffeting news of both what's happening
in the Middle East, as well as who will
the real Fed Chair Warsh actually be?
>> Yeah, it's a big question mark,
especially since he hasn't been that
vocal and there's all this expectation
that under Chair Warsh, Fed
communication is going to change.
Perhaps it'll be less robust, perhaps
there'll be fewer instances of it. It
feels like every week there's five or
six Fed presidents speaking. Will that
still remain the case going forward?
>> Yeah, communication is going to be a big
deal and right now people have been
looking at a yield curve that earlier
this year was steepening. Suddenly it's
been flattening and it's now the
flattest going back to early last year
as people take a look at a potentially
more restrictive Federal Reserve about
an 80% chance that there is one rate
hike this year. Will he push that off or
will he kind of lean into that? How does
this Fed Chair potentially wrangle all
of the committee members together at a
time where there have been an increasing
number of dissents. Will he take
questions? How long will he speak? What
word count will there be? Check out
Polymarket, I'm sure it's all there. As
we await a for this decision and frankly
for the tone to be set, it cannot be
emphasized enough how historic this day
is. There have only been four Federal
Reserve Chairs in the past 30 years.
Jerome Powell, Janet Yellen, Ben
Bernanke, Alan Greenspan.
Let's get to Bloomberg's Michael McKee.
>> The Warsh Fed holds the base benchmark
rate at 3 and 1/2 to 3.75%.
Significantly changes the statement and
splits evenly over whether there will be
a rate cut this year. They see a rate
increase this year. They see one cut
each in 2027 and 2028. Nine members see
at least one increase this year with six
of them seeing two moves, but nine see
no moves or a cut. The median dot this
year does move to 3.75%
from 3.375%.
However, for 2026 there are only 18 dots
suggesting the Fed Chairman did not
enter one. He said he doesn't believe in
the dot plot. Two members did not submit
a dot for 2028. The statement was cut to
four paragraphs. The first, the vote
unanimous, then the decision along with
the statement that the committee
reaffirmed its policy of maintaining
ample reserves in the banking system.
The second and third graphs are the
economic assessment. Activity is
expanding at a solid pace despite
elevated uncertainty that owes in part
to conflict of the Middle East.
Productivity growth and capital
investment are strong. Job gains have
kept pace with the workforce and the
unemployment rate has changed little.
Inflation remains elevated elevated
relative to the committee's 2% goal, in
part reflecting supply shocks that have
driven price increases in certain
sectors, including energy. There is no
balance of risks anymore. The statement
concludes the committee will deliver
price stability. All 19 members of the
committee did submit economic forecasts.
GDP this year, 2.2% down 2/10 from
March. Unemployment will be 4.3% up
8/10. PCE headline inflation will come
in at 3.6%
significantly increased from 2.7% in
their March projection. Core, similarly,
moves much higher to 3.3% from 2.7%.
Growth and unemployment for 2027 are
unchanged from March, while PCE
inflation falls back to 2.3% and core to
2 and 1/2. So, some significant changes
already under the Warsh Fed. We'll see
what the chair has to say coming up in
about a half an hour.
>> Michael McKee, stay close. Definitely
putting his mark on this Federal
Reserve. Just to underscore what Mike
was just saying, it looks like
potentially Fed Chair Kevin Warsh did
not put a dot. That is speculation.
There are only 18 dots. There are 19
members.
There
Meanwhile, you're looking at nine of 18
FOMC participants penciling in a 2026
rate hike. When you take a look at what
that is in markets, you can see a huge
shift up in the two-year yield, a market
shift of about seven basis points to
4.13%.
You could see stocks rolling over as
this continues, people bleeding in the
idea of a more hawkish central bank
given an increasing number of Fed
participants are looking at a rate hike
this year. When you take a look at the
Nasdaq, that is continuing to decline.
The S&P 500 down about a half of a
percent. Bob, what's your initial
reaction given the fact this does seem
to be a hawkish tilt on the committee
and a very different statement.
>> It is a hawkish tilt from the committee.
Half of the committee is expecting rate
hikes
this year, which is I think a real shot
across the bow to the market. We were
thinking two, maybe three to be
decorative. We didn't think half the
committee.
So, you know, it's it's something quite
different.
When you look at the inflation
projections, you know, we were thinking
up a couple tenths.
You're up six tenths, nine tenths for
this year. So, nobody
at the FOMC is thinking that this
inflation will be transitory enough and
we'll see disinflation between now and
the end of the year. So, yeah, I think
this is a Fed
that is sending a hawkish message. I
think you have a Fed chair telling us he
can't be bothered with the dots. I think
that's a slap across the face.
We'll see how he deals with that and and
the Fed going forward.
>> Scarlett, it seems like this is a real
change both in tone, both in substance,
and frankly it points to a hawkish
committee. And as Bob said, a Fed chair
that is doing away with the dots.
>> So, it'll be really interesting to see
how Kevin Warsh comes out and frames
everything when he does begin speaking
because if he leans dovish, it'll
certainly be a case where he doesn't
appear to be speaking on behalf of the
committee. He's kind of speaking out
there on his own expressing his own
views. Um there it's fascinating because
again, he has not said a whole lot about
his take on the economy aside from his
confirmation hearing before the Senate.
So, all of this raises a lot of
questions. As you mentioned, stocks have
extended their losses and now we now see
the S&P and the Nasdaq losing 2/3 of 1%.
Yields again have continued to stay
higher. The 2-year yield up nine basis
points. The 10-year yield about two
basis points right now.
>> Joining us now at to extend the
conversation former Fed vice chair Rich
Clarida. Rich, are you surprised that it
appears that one member of the Fed did
not submit a dot?
>> Well, Lisa, thanks for having me on. I'm
I'm actually not surprised. I actually
was inclined to think that Warsh would
not submit
a dot. Uh but but certainly the news
that Mike McKee just shared with us that
you had nine participants write down a
rate hike was certainly above what I've
been thinking going into this meeting
for sure.
>> Why do you think that is? What is it
that the nine members see that has taken
the market by surprise certainly?
>> Well, there was a big markup in core
inflation projected relative to the
March SEP.
And I think the reality is that the
pressure in core inflation that we've
been seeing in recent data is not just a
pass-through from from energy prices,
but but it does appear to be more
broadly based and I think that's
probably a factor
in these
in this reassessment.
>> Rich, the last line of the statement is
the committee will deliver price
stability. Nothing about full
employment. How do you interpret that?
>> Uh well, uh, it's in front of me here
cuz I'm doing your doing your show, uh,
but but that is an important, uh, change
to the statement. You know, by statute,
the Fed does have a dual, uh, uh,
mandate, um, and that's also highlighted
in the the the firm's, uh, policy, uh,
uh, uh, framework, uh, and I'm sure, I
hope Kevin will be asked to, uh,
elaborate on that at the, uh, at at the
press conference. We're at a point where
we're at full employment or or at least
close to the Fed's assessment of
maximum, uh, employment. So, I wouldn't
read into this that they're abandoning
the employment, uh, uh, mandate, but,
uh, uh, clearly some important change in
the language, for sure.
>> Bob, what's your take on that?
>> Um, I I think they're they are concerned
by the level of inflation. They are
concerned about what they see in the
capex cycle. They are somewhat scarred
for 2022, and they don't want to repeat
that mistake again, and they're watching
other central banks coming out and
lifting rates, and their bond markets
responding well to that. So, I think
they're reconsidering certainly where
they were last meeting, and they're
getting us ready for rate hikes.
>> Rich, is there anything at all dovish in
any way, shape, or form of any part of
this four-paragraph statement?
>> Um,
not not at first glance or first at
first, uh, uh, listen. Again, uh, at
least for this meeting, uh,
uh, Chair Warsh will have the bully, uh,
pulpit, and I very much, uh, will be
looking forward to seeing how he frames
this and provides his own, uh, uh,
perspective, but certainly I think we
have an indication here, especially with
that sentence, uh, the committee will
deliver price stability. That's that's
that sounds like where he's going to
land, for for sure.
>> So, well, there's a comment here from
Joseph Richter. He's one of our editors
at Bloomberg Intelligence on our, uh,
live blog, and he says that those who
look for a quiet first Warsh FOMC
meeting must be disappointed. Um, Rich,
what will you be listening for in
particular from Kevin Warsh when he
speaks today? I know you said it'll be
interesting to see how he frames his
thinking, but what will be the one thing
you that you want to hear from him?
>> Well, let me give you more more more
than one. Certainly, I would like to to
have him flesh out how the dual mandate
fits into this at this at this point.
Also, importantly, you know, he's spent
the last 15 years criticizing the Fed's
big balance sheet, the Fed's growing
expanding its balance sheet now. And so,
perhaps moving beyond this meeting to
the rest of the year and to next year if
you how he's going to try to change
minds on the committee about about the
balance sheet size as well.
>> Mike McKee, jump in here.
>> Well, I think Rich raises an important
point. The only reference to the balance
sheet is the Fed reaffirming its
commitment to the ample reserves policy,
which is
generic enough to encompass both Warsh's
desire for a smaller balance sheet and
others desire to maintain
the quarter system that we have now.
But, the question is do they go to that
later? Is it just too much of a bridge
to cross right now?
Other points that I think are worth
making is that while the committee
dropped the bias statement and doesn't
give any  forward guidance in the
statement itself, the dot plot is
forward guidance because all you're
talking about right now is the nine
people who think that we're going to get
a rate increase and that this tells you
that the Fed is hawkish. So, if
Kevin Warsh wants to walk that back,
he's going to have to do that in the
press conference. Otherwise, the markets
are going to be tilting in that
direction. It's also interesting that
they did say they're committed to price
stability. What it seems like is that
the people who were worried about
inflation, that worry has spread. And as
Rich noted, the core inflation has
broadened out some. And so, they are
sending a message to the markets that
we're not going to let this get out of
control. We're not going to repeat what
happened in 2021-22.
We are going to focus on price stability
right now. The unsaid thing is that
we're basically at full employment, so
we don't have to worry about that for
the moment.
>> Mike, the other thing that jumped out at
me is you said that we went from 18 dots
to 17 dots for 2028. Is there an
undercover supporter of Warsh policy in
the FOMC now?
>> It does seem like there might be at
least someone who supports the idea that
the dot plot is not worth considering.
It could also be that one member decided
that there's just too much uncertainty
for 2028, and why bother to add to that
by just guessing it where rates are
going to be. We've had a lot of Fed
officials over the years tell us that
they just kind of throw something in for
the third year out because it's just too
hard to project anything that far out. I
wouldn't read too much into that, but
the idea that Kevin Warsh did not submit
a dot kind of tells you that he's going
to maybe push to do some change to the
dot plot going forward.
>> If you are just joining us right now, we
did get a statement that's four
paragraphs long, much shorter than
usual, with no reference to the
employment mandate, with nine of the 18
members opting to support some sort of
rate hike this year,
leaving the others either in support of
just keeping things where they are or
potentially cutting rates being taken as
incredibly hawkish. As you can see the
sell-off in Treasuries extending, you
can see two-year yields now up eight
basis points across the curve, all
rising, although this is yield curves
flattening, this idea that potentially
there will be some sort of
tightening in policy. Former Fed Vice
Chair Rich Clarida, final four forward
from you, what's your question right now
going to be for Fed Chair Kevin Warsh?
>> Uh uh uh Kevin, uh uh,
you did not submit a dot today. There's
no forward guidance in the statement.
The markets are taking the information
today as hawkish. Would you be prepared
to comment?
>> Former Fed Vice Chair Rich Clarida, who
might make a sneak appearance cuz that
was pretty good. Uh, thank you so much.
Joining us now Diane Swonk of KPMG.
Diane, what's your first take on this?
>> Well, I'm actually not all that
surprised. We saw a major move in the
minutes to the last meeting where a lot
of people were moving towards that
hawkish chant and saying we may need to
consider rate hikes later this year. And
in the interim period, we have seen even
Fed governors, which usually hold their
cards a little closer to the vest, some
of them who I've never seen actually
take a firm stand, talk about how the
price stability side of the mandate is
more important now than the employment
side of the mandate. And that's exactly
what you saw with that last sentence in
the statement was not that one was
that we were not having a dual mandate.
It's that the focus is on price
stability given the stability we've seen
in the unemployment rate. And I think
that's very important. What the Fed is
saying we're not going to take the
inflation as transitory. What concerned
so many at the Fed meeting in March when
we saw um, sort of the initial forecast
and there was a lot of uncertainty, but
the minutes from that meeting really
revealed how many people but were
already concerned about the data that
was coming out that suggested that
underlying core inflation was not only
sticky but maybe re-accelerating again.
And I think that is where we're seeing
this come from. It is beyond the energy
shock. It is beyond tariff shocks. It's
in that core super services um,
component of inflation that we're seeing
get sticky and hot and accelerate and
not consistent with anything that
resembles price stability.
>> I want to go back to that idea, Diane,
that the statement ends with the
committee will deliver price stability.
From where you sit, what are the most
reliable inflation indicators that the
committee will then focus on? If it's of
course the reported numbers, but when it
comes to inflation expectations, you've
got Marcus based measures, you've got
survey based measures.
>> You know, and and none of these
measures, they have at times none of the
Fed will never say inflation
expectations are unanchored, and I think
that's important and a lot of these
inflation measures on expectations do
not look unanchored, although consumer
sentiment certainly is not high at the
moment and I think the decoupling we've
seen between consumer attitudes and
their actual spending reflects the burn
of inflation and they're seeing that out
there. They're also seeing in surveys
like the ISM survey and the purchasing
managers surveys, things where man
manufacturers are front running future
price hikes. That's the exact behavior
the Federal Reserve is tasked to prevent
cuz that kind of hoarding behavior
reinforces its own inflation cycle. So,
I think those kinds of behavioral shifts
they're seeing out there, they're
worried about the muscle memory of
inflation. We're 5 years in and
inflation is still a problem. Whether or
not it's all the Fed's fault or not,
it's only one institution's
responsibility
to derail inflation and that is the
Federal Reserve and that's what you're
seeing them sort of put their foot down
now that the labor market situation,
although not perfect, is not in the
precarious situation it appeared to be
last fall.
>> You've noted, Diane, that one of the
largest near-term hurdles for the
central bank is the persistence of
service sector inflation. What has
proven to be the most effective way to
bring down inflation in the services
sector?
>> Well, it's the sector that has been sort
of impervious to some of the increases
in interest rates we saw. We did see
wages cool, but they've not cooled
enough to bring it down and I think part
of the problem we're finding in the
service sector is one demographic and
the aging demographics and upward
pressure on some health care costs, but
we also have other factors pushing up
service sector inflation and that is
inequality and the ability of very
high-end consumers to spend up, to buy
at the front of the airplane and buy
first class tickets, to spend at
high-end hotels. All of that is buoying
inflation at a time when many who are on
the lower end or even in the middle part
of the income strata are seeing their
wages eroded relative to inflation where
we know at the highest end of the income
strata that wages are actually going up
more rapidly than inflation and so
that's one of the challenges the Fed
faces is they've got to manage to the
economic aggregates when the devil is in
the details underneath those aggregates.
>> Bob, you know what strikes me is that if
you look at some of the economic
projections here, a lot of people do
seem clearly much more concerned about
inflation. They revised up their core
PCE between 3.2 and 3 and 1/2% for the
entirety of this year from 2 and 1/2 to
2.8 in the previous one. Throughout all
of these, even the Fed funds rate
central tendency was moved up between
3.6 and 4.1.
At this point, can we say we're at
neutral and can you say that right now
this is a Fed committee purely trained
on inflation just as Kevin Warsh
reflected in that statement?
>> Um, they're telling us that we're not at
neutral even though they're you know the
median dot. There's enough dispersion
for higher inflation and higher rates.
It's telling us that maybe the market
was right. Before the meeting, the
market was pricing in one rate hike over
year-end and into next year. It looks
like they looked at the market and say,
"Hey, it's giving us a rate hike.
Inflation's not going to be at our
target for 5 years going on to 6. Maybe
this is the opportunity for us to step
in like every other central bank and
hike rates." I thought we would get
there. I didn't think we would get there
at this meeting. The long end of the
market likes it. Look at that. The front
end's up 6 7 8 basis points. The long
end's down a basis point. A Fed that's
vigilant again creates support for the
long end of the market.
>> actually, Diane, do you think that in
some ways, just to conclude, this is
actually a way to get the ultimate goal
of rate cuts down the road by jawboning
the market into seeing this as a hawkish
Federal Reserve?
>> I think it is important, and I think
it's [clears throat] also an
acknowledgement though. I mean, the
context is important here. 5 years
without hitting its inflation target and
5 years of compounding inflation is a
problem for the US economy. And they now
have more flexibility with the labor
market showing some signs of finally
generating jobs, stable unemployment
rate for a while now with the exception
of the 6-week government shutdown and
the weakness we saw at the end of 2025.
And they're squarely focused on what
they should be focused on. And I agree
that the neutral rate is actually likely
higher than what they thought it was.
There were some that were moving there
prior to this meeting as well, which
means that in and of itself suggests
they should have a higher short-term
rate. And on top of that, we may need
another hike as well. I still expect two
hikes by year-end.
>> Wow, Diane Swonk, thank you so much. Uh
two rate hikes by year-end. Can you
imagine what that would do to markets?
>> There are a couple of dots that point
towards that direction, but the majority
see one. Do you see that in any
capacity? Two rate hikes this year?
>> Uh I think it's possible.
>> You do?
>> Uh absolutely. There's a lot of
underlying growth and CapEx in the
economy, and we don't know whether the
Middle East will be worked out. It's
certainly not impossible.
>> Joining us now is Matt Luzzetti of
Deutsche Bank who's had a few minutes to
look through the statement. What's your
first reaction, Matt?
>> Yeah, I think this was towards the
hawkish end of what we could have
expected. The two things that I was
focused on ahead of the meeting were
one, how many dots were going to show
hikes this year. You have half of the
dots, nine of them showing rate hikes.
Six of them are showing 50 basis points
or more of rate hikes. That has to be
towards the hawkish end of expectations.
The second thing and what drives the
hawkishness in the dots is the upward
revision in their core inflation
forecast. This year they went up to
3.3%. I think really critically next
year where they went up to 2.5%. You
have a median expectation in the
committee that more than six years into
the inflation shock inflation has still
not gotten down to 2.5%
uh and within 50 basis points of their
target, that is what's driving the the
necessity of for potentially higher
rates.
>> So, um one of the comments from Ira
Jersey who's our interest rate
strategist here at Bloomberg
Intelligence says that what worship to
stamp on the statement seems fairly
evident with language moving closer to
the style used before the global
financial crisis. Is this a move to make
the Fed less transparent, Matthew, with
the statement really brought down um the
word count brought down and the length
of it reduced to the point where um this
is going to be a Fed that perhaps will
surprise markets going forward as
opposed to uh really calming them into
submission?
>> Yeah, I I don't think that we learned
too much about that from the statement
today. I think uh the reality is that
there was a lot of superfluous content
in the statement. There was a fourth
paragraph that has been in there uh
really since the COVID uh shock and and
was probably unnecessary from that
perspective. But it is clear uh we're
just going to get less information in
the statement. It'll be interesting to
see how much additional information Wash
provides us in the press conference.
He's been both critical of forward
guidance, so I don't think that we get
much more of that, but he's also been
critical of data dependency. Uh so the
ultimate question is what do we hear
from him about uh at the press
conference? That's still an unknown from
the market's perspective.
>> What's the one thing you want to hear
from him?
>> So, I think I'm going to piggyback on on
Vice Chair Clarida's question from
earlier. And it's uh it's a clear signal
from the committee that higher rates
might be needed to tame inflation. The
market also believes that higher rates
might be needed to tame inflation. We
know that he didn't submit a dot yet
today, but does he agree with the the
skew in those expectations that higher
rates might be needed? And if not, why
does he not agree with it?
>> Matt, don't you think that the dots give
us a lot of information? Won't you be
sorry to see them go? Look how we talked
about the dots non-stop. We looked at
the nine voters that were looking for
rate hikes. I would miss them. I don't
know what being less transparent and
more opaque actually does for the
markets or for the Fed.
>> Yeah, I don't know that I'll I'll miss
the dots to be honest, Bob. Uh I think
too much focus is put on them. I'm sure
uh Chair Warsh is going to mention that
as well. Uh I think ultimately over time
they will go away. I think uh Warsh
doesn't think that they serve a good
purpose of actually providing meaningful
forward guidance. I think they think
that it it's too precise. The market
focuses too much on it and not the
uncertainty bands around it. Uh so,
eventually I think that they will go. I
think we'll be left with an SEP that
shows the central tendency on Fed funds
rate expectations, shows the range on
Fed funds rate expectations. And that
gives us the sense of overall where the
trajectory of policy is going to be
without uh kind of catalyzing us around
one uh imprecise estimate from from the
median.
>> You know, Matt, even if Kevin Warsh
doesn't want to talk that much, the Fed
Chair can't muzzle everybody else. And
there is a risk that potentially
everybody else will talk a lot and give
their perspective and suck the oxygen
away from him, who's not saying very
much. I mean, at what point do we end up
in that type of scenario if the press
conference holds true to what we're
seeing at least in the statement?
>> Yeah, I think it could be over the next
week. I mean, if we don't hear very much
from from uh Chair Warsh today, I would
expect that we do hear a lot from uh
other committee members over the next
week. It's a very strong signal from the
from the dot plot and the SCP that
higher rates might might be needed. And
so, I would expect that we hear from a
number of those committee members. But,
exactly because of that, I actually
don't expect that Warsh gives up his
opportunity to do the press conference.
There is some questions or speculation
that he might not do a press conference
after every meeting. I think he will
because it at least gives him the first
chance to frame the meeting today. Gives
him the first chance to frame that dot
plot which kind of clearly skews hawkish
and potentially push back on it if
that's in fact what he wants.
>> Bob, who would you listen to on the FOMC
if uh Fed Chair Warsh takes a backseat
to communication?
>> I'd listen to Waller. I think Waller to
us was somebody who is very reasonable,
very rational,
uh is very balanced, looks at the full
picture.
Um he would have made a very good Fed
Chair. Didn't work out that way. Look,
Kevin Warsh will be fine. He's a very
credible, capable Fed Governor. Clearly,
he didn't go in with the dovish bias
that we all assumed he was sent in with.
I'm dying to know how the president's
going to react to this. His first
meeting, everybody wants to now start
hiking rates. That's certainly going
against his thinking. Uh but look, Warsh
has proven that he's his own Fed Chair.
Um he'll do what the data tells him.
We're in good hands with him.
>> As far as I know, I we don't have any
social media posting from the president
yet. We'll wait to see when uh new Fed
Chair Kevin Warsh begins speaking. Going
to the idea of forward guidance, I
wonder if the effectiveness of forward
guidance is asymmetrical, Bob. Um I ask
because Rick Reeder of BlackRock says
that you want to over communicate when
you are loose when you're tightening
policy, but you want to surprise when
you loosen because it's more effective
that way. It packs more of a punch. What
do you think?
>> Um I don't think so. It reminds me of
the years when
uh the European Central Banks used to
ambush the market and come in and
created a shock one way. It was very
disruptive to the markets. I don't think
it accomplished anything other than
create losses in some areas and it
wasn't sustainable over time. I think
we're in a world where there's a lot of
information, there's a lot going on, the
complexity of what the Fed has to deal
with is real. They have a lot of tools
at their disposal which didn't exist
pre-COVID or pre-GFC. I want to know how
they're thinking about them. I want to
see detailed forecasts. I want to know
what direction they're moving in. Yeah,
I may agree, I may not. It It's not a
big deal one way or another other than
it just gives us more information.
>> Matt, do you think that there's
plausible deniability? Potentially, you
have a Fed chair that says, "You can't
say it's hawkish. I just didn't say."
>> I I think maybe he takes that attack,
but but I think he's going to have to
present an an alternative case at this
point because the case that is presented
by the the
forecast and and the dots at this point
is clearly hawkish. And so if he's not
in line with that view, I think he'll
have to present an an alternative case.
At this point there's not a kind of a
plausible or realistic alternative case,
I I think. I think you have an economy
where the labor market is strengthening,
it's at worst stabilizing, at best
re-accelerating. You have inflation
which is entrenched at elevated levels.
It's broad-based, it is not simply about
tariffs any longer. Your financial
conditions are very easy levels. You see
growth is actually solid as we saw with
today's retail sales report. And we've
argued in recent in recent research
reports that the Fed very likely could
be accommodative at this point in time.
So I don't actually see the strong case
to push back against it.
But but he would have to present that
case if that's in fact how he feels.
>> Matthew Luzzetti of Deutsche Bank, thank
you so much and I look forward to
catching you in the weeks after the
press conference. Bob, just about 2 and
1/2 minutes to go before we hear from
Fed chair Kevin Warsh. What are you
expecting as we see 2-year yields now
nine basis points higher with people
really surprised by the hawkish tilt?
>> Yeah, and and again, and I think Diane
said it, you know, she kind of expected
it. Maybe we should have expected it. We
all thought it was coming in two or
three meetings from now, not this one.
So, clearly the market's telling you it
didn't expect it. I For me, the question
for Warsh is removing the dots isn't a
regime change. That's part of it. What
is it that he finds most outdated about
the Fed's framework, and how would he go
about changing it? The dots are just one
component of what bothers him.
>> Yes, also the balance sheet, also when
it comes to just how liquid some of
these instruments have actually been.
Bob Michael, thank you so much for being
with us. It is always a pleasure having
you in studio. Scarlet, we are awaiting
Fed chair Kevin Warsh to step to the
podium for the first time as head of the
US Central Bank, the Central Bank to the
world. This is the fifth Central Banker,
the fifth Fed chair going back in the
past 40 years, and clearly he is putting
his stamp on the on the institution.
>> of people say maybe he's going back to
the Alan Greenspan era where you don't
say a lot and you kind of keep the
market guessing rather than uh what Ben
Bernanke ushered in, which is more
transparency, and Jerome Powell kind of
took that to new levels as well. Um it's
worth noting here that not only are
yields higher, stocks are lower. You've
got the S&P 500 down 6/10 of 1%. The
Nasdaq as well. The president, of
course, is in Europe right now, has not,
as far as we know, given any kind of
comment. He had just praised the stock
market saying it was the most brilliant
thing and smarter than anyone else. So,
we'll wait to see how this all
plays out over the next uh 30-40
minutes.
>> you take a look at what Scarlet was just
talking about, uh when it comes to the
equity market, you're seeing S&P in
particular take it on the chin. Also,
the Nasdaq as people look forward to
hearing from Kevin Warsh. In the yield
space, two-year yields really leading
the charge here, 4.14%.
That has ricocheted higher by about nine
basis points. You could see a similar
move on the 10-year yield, but the long
end of the yield curve as Bob Michael
mentioned really likes this. You could
see a two-basis point decline, 4.92%.
A promise for stability, a promise to
get some sort of control over inflation
that has been
clearly they predict it going up in the
near future. And this to me is sort of
the interesting thing in their
forecasts.
>> Yep. Uh Kevin Warsh due to come out any
minute. There's a lot of question marks
about whether the news conference itself
will be shorter in the same way that the
statement was. Right now we have Kevin
Warsh going to the podium. Let's take a
listen to new Fed Chair Kevin Warsh
starting his news conference.
>> It's an honor,
a true honor to be back at the Federal
Reserve,
and to take up this duty at a time of
such consequence.
I've been especially heartened by the
warm welcome of old friends and new
colleagues both.
And I've listened closely to my fellow
FOMC members.
Heard a lot of new ideas, new thinking,
and genuine interest in moving the Fed
forward.
This week's FOMC meeting
exemplified the very best of the Fed's
traditions, rigorous debate,
open-mindedness,
commitment to mission,
responsibility,
and accountability for performance.
In this business,
they all add up to one thing,
getting monetary policy right,
or as near to it as we can do.
That is our North Star.
My colleagues and I are here to serve
our legislative remit,
which you've heard us say before, price
stability and maximum employment.
And these objectives guided our business
in the meeting just concluded.
As you saw a few moments ago, the
committee decided to maintain the target
range for the Fed funds rate
at 3 and 1/2 to 3 and 3/4%.
In support of the Fed's dual mandate.
The committee also reaffirmed its policy
on maintaining ample reserves in the
banking system.
Economic activity is expanding at a
solid pace, despite elevated uncertainty
that owes in part to the conflict in the
Middle East.
Productivity growth and capital
investment both strong.
Job gains have kept pace with the
workforce and the unemployment rate has
changed little.
We recognize that inflation has been
running well ahead of the Fed's
long-stated inflation goal of 2%.
That's been going on for more than 5
years.
>> [clears throat]
>> Persistently high prices are burden for
the American people.
But the recent past need not be
prologue.
I am pleased to report
that members of the FOMC are unambiguous
and unanimous. This committee will
deliver price stability.
At any institution, a change in
leadership
is a natural and timely opportunity
to reaffirm its mission,
to review current practices,
and to consider whether those practices
best meet our objectives.
My Fed colleagues and I will be working
in close collaboration
to ask what changes might improve the
conduct of monetary policy.
On that score, you might have already
noticed something, a difference in
today's policy statement.
It's a bit shorter, a bit simpler, and
it dispenses with some older language.
That statement just gives you the facts
as best we can judge it.
Absent also is so-called forward
guidance, which we agreed was not well
suited to the current policy conjecture.
This afternoon,
you also received the usual summary of
economic projections.
It's been the practice of this committee
for participants to submit these
projections, and I have encouraged my
colleagues to continue to do so.
I, however, have refrained from offering
any projections of my own,
consistent with my long-held views on
the SEP, at least as currently
structured.
In the median projections, real GDP
rises at 2.2% this year,
2.3% next year,
and total PC inflation runs at 3.6%
this year,
2.3% next year.
The unemployment rate stands at about
4.3%.
The median participant judges that the
appropriate federal funds rate to be at
3.8%
at the end of this year,
and 3.6 at the end of next.
Let me turn now to a few words on a key
initiative that we're announcing today.
I'm appointing a task force in each of
five areas that are central to the broad
conduct of monetary policy.
First, Fed communications.
Second, the Fed's balance sheet.
Third, our use and reliance on existing
data sources.
Fourth, productivity and jobs in an era
of transformation. And last, the Fed's
inflation frameworks.
These subjects are timely,
consequential,
and in my view worthy of a fresh look.
My colleagues and I discussed them with
energy and purpose over the last couple
of days.
For each of these independent task
forces, I'm enlisting some of the very
best minds both inside and outside the
economics profession.
They will be supported by subject matter
specialists from our superb Fed staff.
And they'll have a straightforward
charge. Start with first principles.
Ask hard questions.
Examine current practice. Consider
alternatives.
And ultimately propose next steps for
policy maker consideration.
Since last summer, my colleagues
discussed possible improvements in the
form and function of Fed communications.
This new task force will build on that
effort. And I expect propose some
well-considered changes including to the
SEP I mentioned a few moments ago.
The second task force, the one on
balance sheet policy,
will review the benefits and risks of
the current ample reserves regime
and the composition of the Fed's balance
sheet.
They will assess alternative frameworks
for the conduct and operation of
monetary policy.
The third task force, the one on data,
will evaluate new information sources
and consider methodological changes to
improve data gathering
with the aim of giving policy makers
more accurate,
relevant, contemporaneous,
and perhaps most important, actionable
information on the state of our economy.
Fourth, the task force on productivity
and jobs,
it'll survey the pace, the reach, the
economic impact of new general purpose
technologies including AI.
And explore the implications for the pet
for the Fed in pursuit of our employment
and inflation mandates. The last task
force, the one on inflation frameworks.
That will examine the drivers of
inflation, first principles, and weigh
the full range of ideas for delivering
price stability in a changing economy.
You'll hear quite a bit more about these
task forces and this overall initiative
in the coming weeks.
Enough for now to make a simple
statement.
Each task force will serve an objective
shared by everyone in the system. Shared
by everyone around that table that I sat
with over the last couple of days.
A Federal Reserve that is clear-eyed
about its mission, fit for purpose, and
focused on the future.
And with that, I appreciate your
attention. I'm happy to take your
questions.
>> Howard Schneider.
>> Uh hi Chairman. Howard Schneider with
Reuters. Good to see you again and and
and welcome back. Um uh this is a lot to
be putting in motion uh so fast. What is
the timeline uh you have in mind for for
each of these?
>> So, um I think it'll depend on the task
force. It also depends on the urgency in
which we need clear answers.
My expectation, I'm still in the
business of recruiting and finalizing
them. My expectation is the task forces
will begin work in the next couple of
weeks and we'll start to get some more
information from them, some more framing
of how they see things starting in the
fall and hopefully most if not all of
them concluding by year-end.
>> And and uh just specifically on the
inflation uh framework, uh you talk
about first principles. Does this
include a review of the 2% target
itself? Uh you've mentioned that things
to the right of the decimal point don't
matter. Uh should this be starting from
a premise that
2% as a point estimate is is too strict?
>> Let me break that into two pieces. Uh
first on the inflation framework review,
their remit is what are the drivers of
inflation? What's the Fed's
responsibility for inflation? In part,
how do we measure inflation? But that'll
overlap with my data group. Uh on the 2%
inflation objective, that is the Federal
Reserve's long-held objective of 2%.
You've heard me say before, uh I tend to
focus on the left of the decimal point.
Well, the two is the left of the decimal
point. For now, zero is to the right. I
see no reason until we have
reestablished our commitment and ability
to deliver on the 2% inflation objective
to revisit that. So, that'll be outside
the scope of what we're taking on.
>> Colby.
Thank you so much, Colby Smith the New
York Times. You've in the past said that
inflation is a choice, and in the policy
statement um it includes this pledge to
deliver price stability as you've
reiterated today.
But looking at the SEP, the bulk of your
colleagues expect core PCE to run around
3.3% by year-end, and for the 2%
inflation target not to be reached until
2028.
So, I'm curious how patient you think
the Fed can afford to be at this
juncture in terms of waiting for
one-time inflation waves to wash
through, and for lying inflation to step
down after so many years of inflation
running above target, and under what
circumstances you would support the Fed
taking some action and raising rates?
>> Sure. So, quite a bit there. Let me let
me try to break that into pieces.
First, we have the capability and
commitment to deliver on our price
stability objective of 2%. That's
exactly what we're going to do.
Um
the in the Fed's review of its strategy
over the last any number of years in
January, the Fed, including the strategy
that we're still bound by, the Fed
statement says that inflation is
primarily determined by monetary policy.
You bet it is. I've said for years
inflation's is a choice. You bet it is.
And today I'm announcing that this
committee unambiguously and unanimously
have decided we are going to deliver on
that. Rest of your questions sounded
like a encouragement for me to give
forward guidance.
We've dropped forward guidance.
Some along the committee, I think
dropped it. I suspect from our
discussion last couple of days cuz they
said at this moment in time it doesn't
feel as though providing forward
guidance is right. Others have, I'd say,
different views and think as a general
proposition forward guidance isn't the
business we should be in. But that'll be
taken up by the task force on
communications and my policy maker
colleagues, we're going to listen hard
to what the experts say and make our own
decision.
But I can't give any forward guidance
about what we're going to do next. The
good news is we'll be meeting in 6
weeks.
>> So just following up, I guess, on the
current policy settings then, I am
curious how restrictive you think things
are at the current current moment given
the flow of data that we've seen and,
you know, forecasts that are coming down
the pipeline.
>> Yeah.
I've heard characterizations both inside
in the Fed about that. I'll give you my
own. It's uneven.
If I look at the housing market as one
example,
Fed policy isn't the single determinant
of the state of the housing market, but
broadly I would say there Fed policy
appears to be somewhat restrictive.
I would have a hard time
managing to say those words if I were to
see what's happening in financial
markets. So I'd say it's uneven.
That's perhaps It's function of
different transmission mechanisms of
monetary policy, whether monetary policy
is coming from our interest rate tool or
a balance sheet tool. But the good news,
we have a task force on that, too, and
the balance sheet task force will be
looking more at that subject.
>> Mike McKee.
>> You said you you don't like uh forward
guidance. You dropped it from the
statement this time, but with the dot
plot, nine members suggested that they
want a rate increase by the end of the
year, and the markets have taken that as
forward guidance. So, what does this
mean in terms of how you guide the
markets and in terms of
uh
what the dot plot's future is?
>> Um I'm going to have to give you the
same answer I gave to to Miss Smith.
We've got a task force for that. Um
I'll give you a little bit more.
Uh
I reviewed the dot plots, and when I saw
the submissions, I noted that all the
submissions were coming in with pencils.
You know, those kind with the big
erasers.
Um that's to say that I think my
colleagues around the table, when they
submitted their dots, understand the
world is changing quite quickly. And
they didn't feel bound by them 6 weeks
from now or 6 days from now and if in
the event that their circumstances
change. Um I'll note a couple other
things. What I heard around the table
was as they submitted their modal
forecasts, their modal forecasts, to be
clear, weren't This was more likely than
not
This was This was more likely than their
other scenarios. So, I didn't hear
uh tons of conviction. What I heard was
the kind of humility that I think we
should have.
Um I did not submit a a a dot. For me,
it's not helpful in the conduct of
policy.
I suspect by year end, as I mentioned in
my opening statements, there'll be a
review about
communications broadly. Press
conferences, dots, uh uh meetings and
the like, transcripts, minutes. This
will be part of that. I don't want to
prejudge the outcomes there, um but I'm
pretty open-minded about what they could
be.
And I was just incredibly impressed over
the last couple of days. Uh my
colleagues over the last 2 days and
frankly over the first 3 weeks I've been
here, they've been very open about
changes. Changes aren't easy, changes
filled with risk,
but our number one goal is to get
monetary policy right.
The way to get monetary policy right is
to deliver on the remit that Congress
gave us, to deliver on price stability.
And there was uh no disagreement on any
of those points.
>> At the risk of uh possibly getting the
same answer about task forces, uh
communications, uh what is your feeling
about these news conferences? Are you
going to continue one after every
meeting? Uh
do you think find them useful? Uh what
is the future for the way Kevin Warsh
will communicate?
>> Well, this one's probably got another 15
or 20 minutes in it, so I don't want to
prejudge the outcome. Um
uh Press conferences can be a very
useful way to communicate with
households, businesses, and more broadly
through using the likes of you.
I had a a great old mentor named George
Shultz, and his mantra
was press conferences are useful, but
when you have one, you want to make sure
you have something important to say.
Today I think we had something important
to say
about our commitment to deliver on price
stability,
our commitment to rethink practices with
an eye of moving the Fed forward,
and to give you and the American people
a sense that these aren't idle thoughts,
these are concrete thoughts, that we're
going to seek out the best minds, both
of the best thinking inside of the
Federal Reserve, and the best people I
know in business and economics and the
academy and technology and the rest to
share their views. That's what we're
going to be doing here, the pursuit of
truth.
Uh I think we're going to come up with
some new and interesting things. Um we
made some changes today. I expect more
changes to come. And uh and some of
those might well be worthy of a press
conference.
>> Chris Rugaber.
>> [clears throat]
>> Hi, uh Chris Rugaber at Associated
Press. Thanks for uh taking our
questions.
Um
could you give us a sense of how you see
inflation more in the long term? I know
you may not want to comment on the ups
and downs, but is this mainly driven by
energy prices and the Iran war at this
point, or do you have any concerns about
underlying inflation pressures in the
economy? Thank you.
>> So, I can't do much better than than the
committee just did. So, let me let me
restate it. Inflation remains elevated
relative to the committee's 2% goal, in
part reflecting supply shocks that have
driven price increases in certain
sectors, including energy.
That's paragraph goes on to say, but to
be clear, the Fed will deliver price
stability.
My own judgment is the committee spent
quite a bit of time, not just in 2 days,
but over iterations of a couple of
weeks. That's what we're prepared to say
about inflation, but the commitment to
deliver is strong, unanimous, and
unambiguous. And that's I think an
important message. We've missed for 5
years, and uh and we're going to fix
that.
>> Well, great. And then just on your the
data task force and everything else. I
mean, generally speaking,
uh
I think people feel the feel the Fed
looks at everything already. Certainly,
that was the sense from before. Uh
what's is there data that you feel is
not given enough weight? Uh I mean, you
mentioned the trimmed mean in the past,
but again, that's well known to
certainly most Fed members. So, what is
that task force looking at? And and what
[snorts] what might be the I mean, I
know you don't want to prejudge the
outcome, but
are there examples of data that you
expect might be be more weight? Thank
you.
>> So, you're answering my question. So,
let me say I don't want to prejudge the
outcome. I also don't want to say too
much about what they're going to do
because I still have a phone call or two
to make before I've nailed down the
people that are doing that. Um I'm
interested in what the outside experts
view is on the subject.
I'll say this generally. Um
most of the data that central bankers
and other government officials in the
United States consume
come with old-fashioned survey methods.
Uh a national accounts of the what the
US economy looks like that looks very
little like the US economy in 2026.
Um survey methods that don't have
response rates that we need asking
questions that might have been quite
applicable a generation ago that are
less applicable now.
So, even inside of official statistics I
would be open-minded if the task force
and our own best thinking had
recommendations how those official
statistics can be brought up to a
standard of of our time using new
analytic methods.
I'd also say this. Almost every private
company CEO that's running his or her
business are doing so with real-time
information.
That isn't subject to much revision.
That is telling them what just happened
at that very moment.
As you know, there are normal long and
variable lags in the conduct of monetary
policy.
What we're really interested in is
what's happening right now.
What we're less interested in is echoes
of history. And you're hearing from my
answer that some of the data that we
receive that we're waiting on, the first
Friday after the month of payroll index
or something else
that might be an echo of history that's
quite useful on its third revision. We
need to take those error bounds down
because we have to make hard decisions
in real time.
I'm really open-minded that there is a
lot of new data sources that we can
learn from the private sector, from
reforms in the official sector, and new
analytic techniques that are far more
refined than asking a simple question
about whether something was core or
non-core.
>> Edward.
>> Thanks. Welcome, Mr. Chairman. Edward
Lawrence with Fox Business. So, if you
don't give a lot of ongoing forward
guidance, will the markets have more
volatility, and shouldn't Americans have
more access into what you're thinking
going forward?
>> Um so, I think financial markets
perform best when they react to incoming
data.
I think they the financial markets work
less efficiently when they ask a
question, how will the Federal Reserve
react to that incoming information?
Um the more that markets are paying
attention to what's happening in the
real economy, deciding what's good data
and what's less good data, the more
financial markets can price what they
believe is the most likely and what are
the tail risks.
Financial market prices are probably the
most important source of information to
guide central bankers.
But when all the financial markets are
doing is reflecting back what we've
said, then we're taking the most
important source of information, and
we're being blind to it. I'd like us to
create a system where those blinders
come off, where markets are following
data that they efficiently think is
reliable, and they'll be watching data,
we'll be watching data, they'll come
with better information through market
prices to us, we can make more informed
decisions, with ultimately the goal that
I said at the outset, deliver on the
price stability objective that Congress
told us to do, and that we've got to get
in the business of doing.
>> Yeah, if I could uh take you in the
meeting a little bit. Um this is your
first meeting. The the board members
seem fairly hawkish when you listen to
in general when you listen to what
they're saying. Was there any discussion
of a rate cut going forward today?
>> Um
there was one proposal on the table.
There was no discussion of any other
proposals.
Um the discussion on that proposal I
would say was quite limited. The group
was unanimous and non-ambiguous on it.
Um it has been the practice of of this
central bank and others to have a range
of alternatives. Um
today we had one. I thought it further
discussion, deepened it, uh and made it
clear what we needed to do and how we
needed to deliver. I wouldn't prejudge
what happens in the future, but there
was only one big subject for us. We took
it on. We had a good family fight on it
for a couple of days and we ended up I
think in a better place.
>> Claire.
Thanks, hello. Claire Jones, Financial
Times. Um you know, coming to this
blind, reading this very nice short
statement that I think we've all
appreciated in the room. Um
one might wonder why you didn't raise
rates today considering what you're
saying here
um about the the risks to US inflation
and your mandate. Um
I guess why not and what would you need
to see in order to get to that place?
Um and secondly, on your
task forces, are there any best
practices at other central banks that
you'd consider looking at? Thank you.
>> Yeah.
I'm glad they're in the practice of
giving you two questions because my
answer to your first question was going
to be very curt. I've got nothing more
to say than the statement itself.
And to the point of the question I got
before, market reactions to what we say
unfiltered, I think is more helpful than
having delivered a statement, me then
improvising further upon it.
Best practices of task forces. Um this
is a subject I've thought some about.
I've been on a task force or two in my
life.
Um best practice, find the best minds.
Um ensure that the task forces have a
range of people both by backgrounds and
predispositions,
so they too can have a bit of a family
fight.
Um make sure when you establish a task
force
that the group that's going to be the
recipient of the information feels as if
they've got some equities in it, too.
That's why we're looking for, haven't
done the final roll call,
some of the most significant talent we
have in the building and across the
Reserve Banks on each of these and in
some sense seconding them to this group
for a period of some number of months.
Um
so that the leaders of the task force
know what the most
uh analytical central bank in the world
thinks about that. They can reflect on
it and a final best practice,
we're not outsourcing decisions to
anybody. Um
uh administrations past and present,
Reserve Banks have chosen a group of 19
people around the table. These will be
our decisions. We can agree to some of
the recommendations, disagree with
others, have a good family fight about
it, but what comes from them will, I
hope and believe, make the discussion we
have internally better, stronger, um
more of a dialectic, so that we can
finally deliver on that price stability
objective.
>> Just a quick follow-up on your your
markets point. If you look at two-year
yields, they really suggesting that
markets think more tightening is needed.
Would that be your read on what the
two-year yield is saying as well?
>> We were in such a good place. This is
why we don't do third questions, I
presume. I'm not going to offer any
commentary on mark market reaction over
the last 30 or 60 minutes.
Um
what we've given markets is uh a new
chapter for the Central Bank, some fresh
thinking.
What we've given markets and households
and businesses, I think, is commitment
to ask ourselves hard questions such
that we can deliver on the promises that
we've made before.
Um
this is a lot of change for financial
markets to digest. I wouldn't be
particularly intrigued by how they react
in the first several minutes or even
first several days. What I think's most
important is that financial markets, and
at least as important, households and
businesses know that this central bank
will deliver on price stability.
>> Brian.
Hi Chairman Worship, Brian Cheung with
NBC News. Thank you for taking our
questions. So, when you say that we've
dropped forward guidance for the
layperson, that might sound like the
Fed's going to say less or offer less
insight into where their borrowing costs
might go. So, for the person that maybe
you might run into at the grocery store
where the price tags are rising at a
faster pace than their wages at the
moment, how would you explain it to
them? I don't know, task force might be
the answer there, but how would you kind
of communicate this era, this chapter of
the Fed?
>> If I told somebody in the milk aisle
that I had a task force for that, I
think that would be I'd be doing a very
poor job. So, I appreciate it. Um
if I saw somebody in the grocery store,
what I would say to them
is that we cannot have a very
significant effect on particular prices.
The price of oil in the markets today or
even that the the price of a dozen eggs,
um that does not have first order
consequences to what we're doing.
But we do have a really important job
there, and it's to make sure that those
changes in oil or beef or eggs or milk
don't broaden in the economy, don't have
second and third order effects. That's
our job. That's our commitment. That's
our capability, and we're going to
deliver on it.
>> And then is the Fed's relationship with
the uh Treasury also under review? There
was the normal uh breakfast meetings
with the Treasury Secretary. Is that
something you intend to continue doing
and have you had conversations with the
president since your swearing in?
>> So, on the president, I I don't have
anything for you.
With respect to the Treasury Secretary,
he has been posting pictures about
breakfast, so I don't think I can I
don't think I can un-deny that. The long
tradition at the Central Bank is that
the Fed Chairman and the Treasury
Secretary meet weekly. I think we've
pulled off three of those so far. I
believe he's overseas this week, so this
will be the exception to the rule.
I think they're very useful discussions.
The Central Bank's
objectives and our roles and
responsibilities are quite delineated
from the fiscal authorities.
And in my view, monetary policy is
independent in the conduct of what we
do. But that doesn't mean we're not
interested in what's happening with the
fiscal authorities. The way I think
about it is this Central Bank needs to
have a wide lens, but a narrow remit. We
need to be quite interested in what's
happening in the world.
I won't be breaking any news here to
suggest I'm quite interested in what's
happening in the Middle East. That does
have some effect on our day job.
It doesn't mean it's our responsibility,
but I think we're going to keep a wide
lens and my meetings with Secretary
Blesten to this point have helped widen
that aperture. So, we're aware of things
that could affect our day job even if it
isn't.
>> Steve.
>> Steve Liesman, CNBC. Mr. Chair, thank
you Mr. Chairman, thank you for taking
my question. Um
you had said in the
before
you became Chairman that you thought
productivity was a reason why the
Federal Reserve could lower interest
rates.
Do you still believe that to be the
case?
>> So, the committee had a discussion of
productivity today. AI came up.
The way I thought about it before and
socialized with the group
is that artificial intelligence, the
latest generation of general purpose
technology,
is perhaps as important change in the
economy and business and households that
we've had in my adult lifetime.
It is filled with both a huge
opportunity and with risks. I take both
of those very seriously.
Um you may have heard me say before that
AI is shorthand perhaps for American
ingenuity.
That doesn't mean that it's going to be
easy. That certainly doesn't mean it's
not going to be disruptive.
But over the long term, my conviction,
and I heard quite a bit of support for
this around the committee today, is the
United States is a winner
as we go down this. The United States is
ultimately going to be better off in
that.
Now to bring that back to the conduct of
policy, timing, scale,
speed, implications for output and
employment, um
it's one of the things we have a task
force to do.
>> If you don't mind a follow-up from the
other side, which is that when you look
at the strong job growth that's out
there, the elevated inflation, GDP seems
to be going pretty good, and the stock
market seems to be soaring.
Do you look around this economy and see
the funds rate being restrictive?
>> So, um that's your second question. I'm
going to give the same answer that I
gave before. As I said, as I think about
the conduct of policy, what matters is
what's the effect of policy. Not what do
we say, but what happens. And the best
way I can describe it is it's uneven. I
do see some restrictedness in things
like housing. It's hard to use those
same words anywhere else. I'll just make
one other point. Um you talked about one
of our dual mandates and the employment
side.
I don't believe that we have a cruel
choice. I don't share the view that was
expressed a few generations ago
that Federal Reserve chairmen show up at
a podium like this and say, "You got to
choose."
And uh you're going to have to decide
whether you're willing to tolerate
higher inflation to put more people at
work.
I don't believe in that. What I believe
is if we do our job, we can make strong
growth,
low prices, and strong employment
mutually compatible.
And so, what you heard from the
committee today is we've got some work
to do on this price stability front.
>> Nick.
Thank you. Nick Timiraos with The Wall
Street Journal. Uh Chairman you've said
repeatedly credibility is earned by
delivering. If credibility requires
delivering, the move would be to tighten
or at least to threaten to. Now, you
didn't do that today. Why not?
>> Um
that judgment you expressed was not
expressed by any of the 19 people around
the table. Um we'll be meeting in 6
weeks. We'll take up the issue again.
>> And And if I could ask about AI, the
buildout is generating enormous demand
right now. CapEx, data centers, power.
Uh the productivity payoff may be
further out. So, in your judgment today,
is AI adding more to demand or to
supply?
>> It's a good question. Um
at the central bank in an economics
profession,
what we spend most of our time doing is
counting demand. It's easier.
We can see it. We can count it. We can
check it. We can revise it.
Um what we do though is we infer supply.
You'll notice in the second paragraph
of what one of your colleagues described
as a very short statement,
we have a sentence on the demand side
and a sentence about the same length on
the supply side. They're both important.
Just because we can count one better
than the other doesn't mean we're going
to favor one more than the other.
With respect to AI and the growth of
data centers and infrastructure around
it,
we're counting the demand side, and it
is no doubt showing up in GDP figures.
We can be less certain
when we infer the timing and extent of
the growth in the supply side.
It may well be an intuition the supply
side is going to expand, but it'll take
longer. I just described it this way.
There's a race between supply and
demand.
Milton Friedman says that the only thing
we know about economics is that there's
a supply line and a demand line that
ultimately cross. When they cross and
what are the implications for policy?
The good news for you is we have a task
force for that.
>> Andrew.
>> Uh thanks, Mr. Chairman. Um uh it
sounded like uh on the task force on
data that that you were looking at
overhauling or completely overhauling
the system of national accounts, the way
the government mines the economy. Is
that your ambition?
>> Um in a word, no.
Uh in a few words,
uh much of this data gathering happens
in other government agencies to which we
owe a tremendous amount of respect,
tremendous amount of deference.
But if in the course of this we come up
with recommendations,
which Fed staff have already begun to
develop, about things that they could be
doing to help inform us as policy
makers, we're not going to hesitate.
Again, I don't want to try to
uh delineate the four corners of the
research of the task force on data,
but I do think there will be a review of
official statistics,
and at least as important a view of
bring bringing the best practices from
the private sector, and new analytical
tools made possible by AI, so we can
forge these into a fabric that gives us
better real-time information. So, as I
mentioned before, when we're making
decisions, we're making decisions that
we'd say are real contemporaneous data,
not data that we call contemporaneous,
that's really an echo of history.
>> Okay. Um thanks. Uh the other question I
wanted to ask is uh related to the the
building renovations. Are you
considering any changes to the
renovations, the projects, um just in
light of the fact that they became kind
of a political football in the last
year?
>> I heard something about that. Um
uh
I don't think I'm breaking any news, but
my view when that you show up at a new
institution, you should go meet with the
Inspector General just as a matter of
good practice.
Um it's a practice that I hope to
continue. I've had one meeting with the
Inspector General,
and he told me what I believe the world
knows, which he'll be coming out with a
report on the [clears throat] building
and the building projects at some point
later this summer. Um and uh I'll be
interested in reading the report. From
my perspective, with a forward-looking
glance, is there anything that we can be
doing or should be doing
from this moment until the completion of
the project to do what we can to be good
stewards of taxpayer money and uh make
sure that the we're delivering on the
the promises that we made. Uh some more
work to do. You might not be surprised
in the first few weeks I've been
somewhat preoccupied on other matters,
but I promised it to to get to the full
breadth of the Fed's uh tasks in the
weeks ahead.
>> Victoria.
>> Hi, Victoria Guida with Politico. Um
So, I know that you did not submit a
forecast, but you are the person who is
authorized to speak on behalf of the
FOMC. So, I'm wondering if you could
tell us in the SEP, um the increase in
the expectations for inflation, is that
all because of the Iran war? What was
the discussion around what would the
expectations for inflation being higher
and and also potentially growth being
slower?
>> So,
um
my read of what I heard in the room
reflected, I must admit in the SEPs,
is half of my colleagues thought the
policy rate, given all those
developments, should be at this level or
lower between now and year-end, and the
other half thought higher.
Um that 19th voter was me, and I didn't
submit one. Um there's a range of views
on the questions of of uh first- and
second-round effects.
Uh no resolution or conviction,
but we'll be meeting again in 6 weeks.
I think we're going to know more then,
and I think that my colleagues are very
attentive to incoming developments
between now and then.
>> And can I just quick follow up on the
SEP? You said that you're still
encouraging your your your fellow
committee members to submit forecasts
even if you're not doing it. So, what do
you think is the benefit of them doing
it even if you don't?
>> Uh that's the commitment that the FOMC
made, and it's a commitment that I hope
we live up to.
Commitment we made was to deliver price
stability. I expect us to live up to it.
By the time we get to the end of this
year, as I mentioned, I wouldn't be
surprised if there was a new
communications framework, there were
some changes to the SEP.
That's a committee discussion, a robust
discussion. I think we'll have it. I
believe we're going to come to uh a
better mix of communications to
um
deliver on what we promised, but I
wouldn't want to prejudge what those
are. But between now and then, I would
continue to expect colleagues to submit
their SEPs.
Um some of them uh
I think believe that the practice as
currently structured is okay, but I
heard a lot of interest in real reform
generally about all of these topics.
You didn't ask it but I'll answer. It
was a It was a pretty gracious couple of
days and it's been a pretty
uh
warm few weeks. The institution wants to
figure out how we can do better. The
institution's going back to first
principles and I'm encouraged that what
we've done in the statement, what we're
thinking about doing with respect to the
SEP
that instinct towards a new chapter is a
real one and by the end of the year I
hope we can put some points on the board
both in form
and in substance of delivering.
>> I'll end up for the last question.
>> Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eddie Curran,
Bloomberg News. Could you guide us
through, please, some of the principles
that guide your own reaction function
and tell us a little bit about the kind
of conditions that you think when when
the Fed should respond?
>> Um
it's going to be a very unsatisfactory
answer to the final question.
The Federal Reserve
uh
has a lot of responsibilities, not just
in monetary policy but in supervision,
regulation, consumer affairs, and
payments.
My own view is our credibility comes
from delivering on what we're saying
we're going to do across everything we
do.
Um I've devoted more time in my first 3
weeks to monetary policy than all those
things.
But the more we deliver on our promises
as good supervisors and good regulators,
the more benefit we get, the more
credibility enhancement we have in
monetary policy.
When we deliver on our price stability
objectives, which we will,
uh the American people will feel as
though the hardships that they've been
living through in part because of
inflation the last 5 years are in the
rearview mirror and that credibility
will have dividends dividends across
what we do and the institution will come
to press conferences like this, always
with an impetus to reform, always with a
impetus to to do better, but we're going
to put some points on the board.
>> Mr. Chairman, we've had strong labor
data in recent months. How would you sum
up the labor data labor market right
now? Do you see it as stable and as a
potentially source of inflation? Thank
you.
>> Yeah, so so the committee
uh
if I were to try to capture how the
committee thought about it, the
committee thought that the labor markets
were stable.
There were some people around the
committee who thought that it was
trending better than that.
Uh trends matter more than data points.
Uh what's happening over three or six
months matters more than any one data
point, any one data release. And I'd say
the jobs data has been moving in a good
direction.
If I heard one other thing around that
subject over the course of the last
couple of days, what I heard was that
strong productivity-led growth
is not something that we fear, but
something we embrace. Thank you all very
much.
>> We've been listening to Kevin Warsh, a
new Fed chair in a new era as we do
parse through some of the commentary.
The Kevin Warsh Federal Reserve is a
very different Federal Reserve than the
Jerome Powell Federal Reserve. Not only
are we looking at a statement that was
only 132 words versus 175 words at the
April FOMC meeting. We're talking about
a new framework, a new regime, and not
giving any forward guidance because
guess what? There's a task force for
that. Right now, if you take a look at
the reaction markets, they are taking
this hawkish tilt and they are running
with it. You could see across-the-board
declines on the S&P and the Russell
2000. Nasdaq now a little changed as
they parse through all of the reactions.
When you take a look at the yield space,
that's where some of the fireworks are
happening. It is yield curve compression
time in a massive massive way. 13 basis
point rise on the two-year to 4.18%.
Suddenly, the idea of one rate hike or
even more is on the table as this Fed
chair talks about how this Federal
Reserve has a a commitment to the
American people to get price stability
and that is their goal. He pooh-poohed
some of the dual mandate. The 30-year
yields, they like that, down two basis
points. And it is dollar strength across
the board. A big question, Scarlet Poo,
was would
have any commentary on this? And it
turns out that he does. He does. He's
spoken to reporters several times today.
He's at the G7 in France and he had said
that it's all right that they held
rates. Whatever. He also said that the
Fed raising rates is a possibility. It's
possible. It could happen. So, no sign
of anger from him. We do know that Scott
Bessent, the Treasury Secretary, had
kind of eased the path there. He had
been talking about the prospect of the
Fed not being able to cut rates as the
president would want and that inflation,
oil prices remain top of mind. So, we
did just listen to Fed chair Kevin Warsh
speaking moments ago. Is there any kind
of forward guidance? Where did you put
your potential dot if you were to have a
dot? Well, he has an answer for that.
>> I'm appointing a task force in each of
five areas that are central to the broad
conduct of monetary policy.
First, Fed communications.
Second, the Fed's balance sheet.
Third, our use and reliance on existing
data sources.
Fourth, productivity and jobs in an era
of transformation.
And last, the Fed's inflation
frameworks. My expectation, I'm still in
the business of recruiting and
finalizing them. My expectation is the
task forces will begin work in the next
couple of weeks
and we'll start to get some more
information from them, some more framing
of how they see things starting in the
fall and hopefully most if not all of
them concluding by year end.
>> Joining us now to discuss is Kate Moore
of City and Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research. Are either of you being
recruited for the task force? We'll
start with that.
>> Uh I just checked my text text messages
and nothing came through yet. So but
it's still early after the presser.
[laughter]
>> All right. What's your first reaction to
what we just heard, Kate?
>> Well, a couple things. Number one, there
was broad acknowledgement that the
economy's in good shape. There's also
broad acknowledgement that the rates as
they currently stand are not actually
restricting any major sector outside of
course housing which Warsh mentioned.
And there was a like a a lot of
collegial talk about you know how well
the Fed is working together, how well
they're communicating, how welcoming
Warsh felt you know in his new chair
position. Uh so there was actually kind
of a positive tone about both the
economy and the functioning of the
institution.
>> And in terms of changes that he's made,
Lisa, you already highlighted the fact
that the statement was much shorter, the
news conference was shorter as well and
we definitely heard a different side to
these Fed news conferences.
>> Jim, one thing that
Kevin Warsh made clear was that for
longer term changes including
communications, including the dot plot,
there's going to be a task force for
that. How do you anticipate that kind of
information to come out? Is that going
to be a surprise when it just comes out
or is it is he the Fed going to give
markets time to digest all of all of it?
>> Well, he also said that the task force
might include people outside the Fed. So
I would assume that you're going to have
leaks so you might as well be
doing it almost in real time, telling us
what's happening because there's going
to be some people outside the Fed. But
uh in general, I think that this is a
welcome thing. The Fed needed to change.
This communication style that they have
now is about 20 years old and the world
has changed, communication has changed,
the full the role of the Fed has changed
and so it is a positive thing. I'll also
mention that one of the things that
Warsh talked about before he was
chairman was all of these
prognostications. The Fed's going to cut
rates according to the dot plot. He
pointed out it very rarely happens the
way that they say it's going to be. So,
it was always an institution that was
giving an inaccurate forecast, and we
were over-relying on that inaccurate
forecast, and maybe it is time that they
try a different approach.
>> Kate is Chair Kevin Warsh kind of
consistent with what former governor Fed
governor Kevin Warsh sounded like?
>> I mean, I'm going to go back to this
word I just mentioned a moment ago,
collegial. I mean, it really felt like
that was the the sort of the the overall
tone. And I think something is very
important here, which is that we are
having more consistency of policy here
between um last meeting with Chair
Powell and Chair Warsh, which I I think
is a going to be comforting to the
markets even if risk assets, you know,
dip a little bit on this news. It's just
kind of reiterating what we already know
though, right? That inflation has been
warmer, spicier than many people had
expected, certainly um even pre-the Iran
conflict. And we know that if there's
been a broadening out of some of these
price pressures while the labor market
has been solid. I just felt like, you
know, Chair Warsh made those points,
conceded that, um and so was consistent
with the person that he has always been,
which is someone who's really grounded
in data.
>> There's also been a comment, and I
thought that today's answer to one of
the questions was really interesting
about why he thinks that this shouldn't
be an overly communicative Fed, how the
data and how the market responds to the
data should be done more purely. Take a
listen to exactly what he had to say.
>> I think financial markets
perform best when they react to incoming
data.
I think they the financial markets work
less efficiently when they ask a
question, how will the Federal Reserve
react to that incoming information?
Um
the more that markets are paying
attention to what's happening in the
real economy, deciding what's good data
and what's less good data, the more
financial markets can price what they
believe is the most likely and what are
the tail risks.
>> This actually to me highlighted a real
question that's been asked. Jim, is this
sort of codifying the fact that the
Fed's going to follow the markets? The
market is going to be sort of the
arbitrator of what the Fed should do
because it is a pure indicator of the
collective wisdom of crowds.
>> I I think the market should be the the
thing that the Fed follows. His
statement reminded me of that famous
line from the economist Charles
Goodhart, when a measure becomes a
target it seeks being a measure, meaning
if the Fed has already decided what
they're going to do, then we can ignore
the payroll report, we can ignore the
CPI. Maybe we shouldn't, maybe we should
be reacting to all of this and having
the market express its best judgment and
then letting the Fed bring in that
information. That I agree with him is
the proper way for things to be done
than them to just summarily decide what
they're going to do, say they care about
the data, but they've already made up
their mind.
>> Kate, do you agree?
>> Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense,
right? The market being an important
signal, an important source of data for
the Fed.
>> Uh in
>> instead of this kind of manipulation. It
is really hard though as market
participants not to try and to
anticipate what other market
participants or other policy makers or
other people making decisions um are
doing or interpreting with the data, you
know? And that is part of the game and
part of the behavioral side of things
that we all incorporate into our
process. But I think, you know, um Chair
Walsh's point was very clear that the
market and that mechanism Jim as you're
pointing out is a really powerful
mechanism and we shouldn't feed it.
>> Right now, uh we want to get back with a
part of the task force. I don't believe
he actually has been appointed to a task
force. He is officially the Bloomberg
task force on the Federal Reserve.
Bloomberg's Michael McKee, you are in
the room and the press conference
actually went along went on a little bit
longer than some people had expected.
The commitment to a press conference
though not exactly concrete. His answer
to you was really interesting. What was
your takeaway from this conference?
>> Well, the answer of course like almost
all of his answers ended with there's a
task force for that. But basically
they're going to look at all
communications, and he did express the
idea that he doesn't necessarily think
you should have a press conference after
every meeting if you don't have
something to say. Now, that's going to
be the thing that the task force is
going to have to look at is what
qualifies as something important to say.
Today, obviously, but if you're in a
situation where you don't know where
inflation's going, where you're going to
vote to hold rates where they are, uh
does that require a meet a press
conference? If not, then how do the
markets react? The Fed there is kind of
leading the markets. And if they come to
you and say, "Hey, uh come on over.
We're going to have a press conference
today." then they're also leading the
markets. So, it's a it's a difficult uh
needle to thread at this point, I think,
for Warsh to try to get out of this, to
put that genie back in the bottle. But,
we'll see what the uh the the task force
comes up with. He was very, very uh
complimentary of uh Fed officials today,
uh and he basically framed this all as
we're all working together to make this
work better for monetary policy. So, uh
it's going to be we're all going to be
sitting back and waiting for these task
force reports to come out.
>> Michael McKee, thanks so much for all of
your work and insight today. Just real
quick here, it does seem like the market
he's not necessarily paying attention to
in the initial salvos of the reaction.
He went on and said, "Honestly, I'm not
that concerned in the first hours." That
said, the idea that I they dropped any
kind of commentary on the labor market,
and the fact that he said, "We've missed
for 5 years our inflation target, and we
are going to fix that." Is there any
other way to interpret this, other Kate,
than unabashedly hawkish?
>> I mean, look, here's what I would say.
The fact that he repeated that we have
been overshooting the target for 5 years
something our team talks about all of
the time. Um I thought it was incredibly
important, and actually was a comfort to
me. This acknowledgement that policy is
going to be really uh active in terms of
getting us to the goal. I thought that
other comment he made around paying
attention to the left of the decimal
decimal point versus the right, that you
know, the the target is two, not two and
something, uh sort of reaffirms that
commitment and the way that he'll work
with the committee, frankly, to get
policy in a place that we go closer to
target over time. So, it's hard not to
interpret that where we are today as a
little bit more hawkish um than
otherwise people might have expected.
>> But also, I think that's thinking
perhaps more clearly than perhaps what
we had heard in the past, right? There's
no two-ish, it's just two, and he's
happy with that. I'm I'm curious in
terms of the labor market. There was a
question posed about what the committee
thinks of the labor market, Jim, and he
said trends matter more than data
points. The jobs data has been moving in
a good direction. It feels like that's
all he said about the labor market. He's
not concerned with it one way or
another.
>> Yeah, and if you go back to the
statement, they didn't put anything in
the statement, and the one question he
said, "We're not worried about the labor
market." Okay, that is not a problem.
The problem seems to be the inflation
problem, and that's what they addressed.
So, I almost just suspect that this
statement is going to be flexible. So,
today, now, it's inflation. I could see
its statement in, you know, 6 months, a
year, where there's no mention of
inflation, and it's all about the labor
market, and it's all about real growth
then at that point.
>> he also said that it wasn't necessarily
in conflict with each other. Right now,
let's bring in Stephanie Roth of Wolfe
Research, who's been listening to all of
this. Stephanie, your first take on what
we just heard from Fed Chair Kevin
Warsh.
>> Yeah, I mean, it was he he's setting up
to be a a very credible Fed. He seems to
be very smart about getting everybody on
his side and getting the consensus. It
seems, while he was not in favor of a
hike today, uh
you know, that could that could very
much change with the incoming data. So,
it was certainly more hawkish than what
some people had thought. Some people
thought he would just come in and try to
push through rate cuts because that's
what the president wants, and that
wouldn't necessarily, quite frankly, be
very good for markets anyway. So, this
was a very deliberate and patient
approach, and we'll see, you know,
through the path of incoming data how
this plays out. Our base case is that
inflation will cool enough, labor market
will show some signs of softening such
that in the coming weeks they don't
actually have to hike, but certainly the
odds have risen after this meeting.
>> Stephanie, does this silence the critics
who thought that we would not have an
independent Fed under Kevin Warsh?
>> Yes, I think it absolutely does.
Uh, he is, you know, looking at the
incoming data. He doesn't seem to be
somebody who is scared to be hiking if
uh we don't actually get closer to the
inflation goal than would otherwise be
the case. He doesn't seem to be, you
know, giving way to any sort of
pressure. So, that I mean that's a very
good thing for markets. Markets should
want an independent Fed. So, just
pushing through rates for the sake of,
you know, appeasing the president is not
something that uh will will ultimately
result in a better economy or markets at
the end of the day. And I think we
should all feel better about that. After
what we heard today.
>> How do you anticipate economists to
respond or to react to the fact that
nine of the members want a hike? I mean,
how is this going to adjust what Warsh
thinks is going to happen with
inflation?
>> Yeah, and you're seeing that in markets
today of, you know, the the the shorter
end of the curve, rates are up
significantly and you have to raise your
odds of a near-term hike knowing that
many more FOMC members than had was
generally expected are looking for a
hike. Before this meeting, I would say
somewhere between the expectation was
somewhere between three and six members
were expected to be penciling in a hike.
Now you're substantially above that. So,
now we're talking about about half the
committee is is, you know, very much
interested in in hiking rates given the
data that we have today. So, whatever
your odds were of a hike
you know, before today, you know, it
certainly has to be to be to be rising.
>> If you are just joining us, we're
parsing through a very noteworthy Fed
meeting, the first for Kevin Warsh as
chairman. And he made a lot of changes.
I did want to make one correction. I
said that there were 175 words in the
April statement. It was actually 341
words versus the 131 words in this
latest statement. As we've been
mentioning in markets, you can see a
real hawkish tilt that is filtering
through markets. I'm wondering, Jim,
from your perspective, do you like long
bonds better given what we just heard? I
mean, does this actually give you more
confidence that this is a Federal
Reserve that wants to anchor inflation
expectations at 2.0, not 2.something?
>> It should. The old Wall Street adage
that as a bond investor, I can stop
panicking when the Fed starts panicking
really applies. If the Fed is going to
be vigilant about inflation, that in and
of itself should be positive for bonds.
Now, today it's positive for bonds with
the yield curve flattening cuz they're
not rising in yield as much as the front
end of the curve. But yes, you know, if
you want to go back to 2022 to give
another example, the inflation rate hit
9% but with the Fed raising rates 75
basis points every meeting, it never got
above 4 and 1/4 the entire year. The the
Fed was in full panic mode. Bond
investors on a relative basis held in.
>> Kate, do you agree?
>> Oh, man, we have been very underweight
duration for like the duration of my
time here at City, to be fair. And we've
debated over and over again, what is it
going to be that that lets us kind of
extend duration in portfolios, but I
just can't get there. I mean, our view
is that inflation is going to be more
persistent and broader than a lot of
people expected for quarters to come. So
even against that backdrop, against the
comments from um Chair Warsh and from
kind of the tone of the FOMC, you know,
we're just not in a place yet where
we're buyers.
>> What What How does this make you think
about credit? Would you be changing any
of your allocation to it or what you
prefer?
>> Yeah, we think about credit of course in
the risk asset spectrum too, not just in
terms of yield, right? And in this case,
you know, equities, not credit, have had
a kind of a a step down in valuation
over the course of 2026 because of
course earnings have been much stronger
than the price movement. And so, you
know, we're still close to that kind of
15-year high in terms of credit
valuations, but we've come, you know,
significantly lower in equities. We
prefer to take our risk asset exposure
in equities over credit. We positioned
that way over the course of the year.
That doesn't mean no credit, but we just
want to be more selective, frankly. And
I wish I didn't just love equities so
much and think they were going to go
higher. Actually, a a pause to breathe,
I think, as we've seen over some last
trading sessions is a is a good thing
going into the summer. But, I also wish
I could use fixed income more actively
in portfolios. But, given the where we
are in rates and inflation, um as I
said, we're very underweight duration.
>> Staying on that idea, we also um heard
from Kevin Warsh, uh Stephanie, about
his thoughts on how restrictive policy
is right now. And his answer was it's
uneven. If you look at housing, for
instance, Fed policy does appear
restrictive because you have that
affordability crisis, not just in the
actual housing prices, but in mortgage
rates. But, he doesn't see that in
financial markets, noting the record
highs that we're seeing in equities and
the tight spreads that we see in credit.
How do you think about that?
>> Yeah, I mean, so we, you know, the
initial idea of, well, policy is
somewhat uneven, you could initially be
interpreted as, oh, well, that's
somewhat of a dovish comment, until he
later said, you don't really see it
anywhere outside of housing. So, it's
it's pointing to that as policy is is
largely, uh you know, not that
restrictive outside of one sector of the
economy. So, once you hear that further
information, it suggests that, uh you
know, the the economy is certainly
running uh fairly hot uh relative to to
sort of where rates are.
So, you know, our expectation is that
was a, you know, somewhat dovish uh
somewhat hawkish comment after uh you
know, it could initially have been
interpreted as a little bit more
balanced.
>> We heard him say pretty confidently,
Stephanie, that uh he was not concerned
with how the market was moving in the
initial aftermath of this press
conference. He wouldn't make too much of
those moves. Do you think that that was
a mistake?
>> No, I mean, I think I think he believes
that. I think he, you know, he he he
came out and delivered a a message of,
you know, credibility, and the market is
seeing seeing through that. I don't
think that was um something he would
wish he, you know, wishes wishes he
didn't say necessarily. He knew he was
going to be coming out and delivering,
you know, a balanced, although perhaps
somewhat hawkish message, and that's
exactly what he did today. He He came in
there. He uh
painted the Fed as a very credible
institution, one that's working
together. He know no noted, you know,
several times that, you know, while they
might have sort of family feuds at the
table, they're going to come out and
deliver, you know, a an important and
singular message, and that's exactly
what he did. So, I think he he, you
know, came and went in exactly as his
plan, and I think he was very successful
in doing so.
>> Stephanie, just sort of a similar
question to what we were asking before
about whether this gives you more
confidence in long bonds. Does this make
you actually pull down your longer-term
inflation expectations for the United
States based on some of the shift in
rhetoric?
>> Yeah, I think it has to. You You know
that the Fed is
going to be credible in getting
inflation down.
The market should and we we, you know,
we also do take him at his word that
they are he's you planning on getting
inflation down one way or another. The
The hope or the expectation is you'll
get it down through the passage of time
and inflation naturally coming down
because there have been shocks to the
economy that should eventually fade.
But if we don't if if that doesn't play
out that way, then Warsh is certainly
going to be behind the Fed hiking rates
in order to get there. So, there are two
paths to get there, but the the end goal
is certainly going to be that 2%
inflation. He very much made that clear.
>> Stephanie Roth, thank you so much for
your insights. Just to recap what we're
seeing in markets right now, you're
seeing a bit of a risk-off in equities,
in bonds very much of a risk-off at the
front end. Yields up almost 15 basis
points now on the 2-year yield to 4.20
even as people take a look at the
possibility of a rate hike. 10-year
yields up five basis points, a market
difference than at the front end of the
yield curve, 4.48%
and 30-year yields are actually down a
basis point. So, that is your yield
curve flattening, and you see it at the
strongest, fastest pace in the 230s
curve going back to April of 2025.
Scarlet, this is exactly what some
people were not expecting, which maybe
is why you're seeing such a violent move
right now.
>> Absolutely. People came in here thinking
that he was going to sound dovish. He
was the
the president's pick, and we know the
president wants lower interest rates.
And just to go back to what President
Trump said, he was answering a question
from our Josh Wingrove about what
happened with the Fed, and his exact
quote was, "It's all right, whatever."
When asked about the Fed's decision to
hold interest rates steady.
>> Well, there you go. They've got the
endorsement, I guess, of the President
of the United States. Jim, do you think
that yield curve flattening is the path
of travel from here?
>> Yeah, if if the Fed is going to be
committed to raising rates, to fighting
inflation, the long end, again, as I
said, on a relative basis, should like
it more than the front end. Front end
yields go up, long end yields kind of
hold steady or go up a little bit, and
you get that
Fed or you get that curve flattening.
>> Kate, what will you be looking for in
the Fed minutes when those come out in 3
weeks?
>> I mean, I guess I'll be looking for that
one small, tiny bit of discussion for
the person who was suggesting that there
would be space for a rate cut. Love to
see kind of how fast that discussion was
or how it's addressed.
I'll also be, you know, kind of thinking
about overall inflation expectations.
This is something we want to see, you
know, how does the Fed talk about that?
Are they going to be acknowledging if we
care a lot more about market pricing,
you know, how that reflects back in in
terms of their overall debate. But in
general, I think we already know what we
need to know, which is like this was a
split set of decisions. There were
people with varying different degrees of
interpretation of the inflation data and
the and the economy,
how tight financial conditions are, how
much we need to worry about break-evens.
I mean, it's we know it's all over the
map, so I'm not sure we're going to get
a single cohesive special message from
the minutes.
>> If I could jump in on that, there's one
other thing that we haven't discussed.
The Fed didn't disclose their vote for
the first time ever. They didn't tell us
whether it was a 12-0 vote or if there
was any dissenters.
>> Yes, by design. So, maybe we'll get that
out of the minutes. But, if we don't get
it out of the minutes, they're going
full ECB, which never discloses their
vote. And that says to me the Fed's more
independent. That there's 12 voters
across that table, and they don't want
to be publishing 7-5 votes, 8-4 votes,
having all these dissents. So, as he
said, they'd rather keep it as a family
fight, let them all hash it out in the
meeting, and then come out with a
decision later on, and not have to have
people put out statements 2 days later
about why they dissented for these
meetings. So, it's going to be a very
different thing, and maybe the minutes
will help uh decide that.
>> Lest I forget that Jay Powell was part
of the discussion. He was in the room
because he's a member of the Fed board,
even though he's no longer the Fed
chair, which is highly unusual, Lisa.
>> Yeah, you have to wonder exactly what's
so broken, and whether he personally
feels a little bit of attachment to the
old way of communication, given that he
was uh really helming that. Uh right
now, I do want to bring in Jeffrey
Rosenberg of BlackRock. There is a sense
right now in markets that this is a Fed
that is newly renewed, really newly
renewing their commitment to controlling
inflation. Clearly, yield curve
flattening, clearly risk off in stocks.
Is this signal, or is this noise?
>> Well, there's there's a lot of both.
This is quite the change, uh and I think
we're all trying to um digest what we
just what we just heard. I think there's
a real risk here. Um Jonathan's not on
the program, so I'm going to do my best
interpretation. The first reaction is
not always the [laughter] right
reaction.
>> Appreciate it.
>> Uh and uh
I think there's a risk here of
overplaying the the the yield curve
flattening and the questioning of the
long end that I'm listening to here. So,
first of all, you know, this is a market
that is sort of split between the old
reaction function, which really moved on
the dot plot, right? The nine votes uh
the nine dots voting for for a hike were
well uh in excess of expectations, and
that's what moved the market. Um, but
but then you have Warsh basically
telling you, "We're going to get rid of
the dot plot." I mean, he he he he he
got you all the way almost to the goal
line, but didn't want to
uh you know, prejudge the outcome of the
of the task force. But, it's very clear,
you know, the task force has uh its its
job ahead of it. Um, so that undermines
a little bit of that interpretation. I
think the second reaction from the
market is just a very clear hawkish
statement. But, I think here, you you
you
there's a possibility here that the the
market may want to rethink or all I'm
rethinking, not not talking about the
market, but you know, is this hawkish
for rates or is this hawkish for the
balance sheet? Because if you look
underneath what he said, there were some
very kind of telling
uh uh interchanges there. And when you
think about the path dependency of Warsh
and his history during the post-GFC, you
know, first you know, why was it that
the communications of the Fed became
paramount for markets? That interchange
about why markets stopped paying
attention to the data and instead of
having their own reaction function, they
were reacting to what they thought the
Fed's reaction function would be. And
that's because of the era of the
post-GFC was the era of we will do
whatever it takes, and believe me, it
will be enough. That was the quote from
the ECB, Draghi, when he threatened bond
markets with that the central bank's
balance sheet was bigger than the
market's balance sheet. And that ushered
in or was reflective of an era where
central banks were the dominant price
makers. And he wants to do away with
that. Well, what's the primary tool for
doing away with that? It's the balance
sheet. So, one of those task forces may
be more important than the others when
it comes to markets and and and market
reactions. Then the second interchange
that was really quite revealing was when
asked about restrictiveness, it wasn't
so much about the unevenness, but what
he went on to say about what is the
source of the unevenness. I found that
to be the most revealing comment because
he said that might be due to
transmission mechanisms. That one might
be about the interest rates, that's
reflective to housing, and the other,
the easiness of financial conditions, is
about the balance sheet. Well, that's
about some of the risks of running an
ample reserve system that maybe here is
being hinted at at being changed. And if
you were to change that, what has been
the biggest beneficiary of a big balance
sheet? The flattening of the term
premium, right? That was the whole point
of a lot of the bond purchases was to
bring down that term premium, and we're
still seeing the legacy of that benefit.
So, if the signal here is maybe we're
going to be hawkish on the balance
sheet, I'm not sure your reaction is big
curve flattening. I get the initial
reaction, hawkish surprise in terms of
the the the focus on on price stability,
but there may be some other second-order
effects here. We'll think about that
actually will become first-order.
>> So, Jeffrey, I got a question for you
about the balance sheet. I agree with a
lot of your sentiment about it, and I'm
thinking back to um
earlier with the Fed when they adopted
inflation targeting. It took under
Bernanke 5 years before we eventually
got inflation targeting. Are we going to
have to wait 5 years for them to change
the balance sheet? Can this institution,
especially since they've got Fed
Governor Michael Barr, who's kind of
against it in the first place, to move
that fast? So, while I agree with you
about the balance sheet, is this
something that's going to take years to
unfold?
>> Well, Jim, I wonder, you know, we're
around the same uh generation. My
reaction to the statement was wow, that
looks like one of the first statements I
saw in my career, Feb '94, about the
same length,
uh similar kind of tonality. And how
quickly did Fed Chair Warsh change the
communications basically on his first
day on the job. So, I don't think from
that signal we're going to be waiting
with this Fed and this Fed Chair 5 years
to make these kinds of changes. And when
asked the question, I think he even
intimated that he expects these
committees to come back by the end of
the year.
>> Well, Jeff, anyway you slice it though,
this isn't great for risk assets, right?
I mean, if you're shrinking the balance
sheet, that's tightening of financial
conditions. If you're hiking interest
rates, that's tightening of financial
conditions. Does this make you rethink
some of your risk bet?
>> You know,
the Fed may be less supportive in terms
of financial conditions, but it's
occurring in an environment where the
contribution, particularly to risky
assets, of the Fed's role is is much
secondary, much more secondary, to what
we're seeing in the real economy, right?
And that's the that's the AI impact, the
incredible amount of capital
expenditures, uh the incredible amount
of earnings growth. So, it might be an
opportunistic moment for the Fed to take
a step back on supportive financial
conditions when financial conditions can
stand on their own.
>> Yeah, I mean, Jeff, I couldn't agree
with you more on this one that what's
been driving the equity market, of
course, has been the earnings in the AI
and the AI ecosystem, as well as all the
CapEx beneficiaries and the companies
the industries that are benefiting from
adopting this technology. So, it's hard
to say that earnings are really coupled
in any way with the rate position at
this point. And then, you know, if we
are fundamentally driven, which our team
certainly is, uh we have to stay focused
on where the earnings are going, uh
who's growing them, and this case is the
US over everywhere else, and regardless
of where we are in a kind of a relative
monetary policy. The one thing I just
would want to highlight though is that
for the fringe companies, the smaller
companies, those that are reliant on
borrowing. People had gotten themselves
incredibly excited, as you remember in
the beginning of the year, around
rate-sensitive parts of the equity
market. Like, this is a time for
rotation, we're going to get excited.
But, now I think we're getting a message
very clearly from policymakers that the
rate trajectory is not lower in the near
term. At best case, we're kind of flat.
And that's not going to be an
environment where companies that need to
borrow in order to keep up with their
large-cap counterparts are going to be
able to do so at a very attractive rate.
So, that needs to be factored into
people's expectations for margins and
then earnings. And if you care about
earnings in this case, which we really
certainly do,
that should tilt your size,
you know, overall exposure.
>> I wanted to go back to the idea about
how communications is changing under Fed
Chair Kevin Warsh.
A question from Michael McKee was on
communications and press conferences,
whether Warsh would continue holding
them after every meeting. He said that
they can be a useful way to communicate
with households and businesses, but you
need to have something to say. So, that
suggests that perhaps there won't be a
meeting, a news conference after every
decision. Having said that,
if households and businesses are
learning from this news conference, are
listening to this, Jeff, what do you
think they heard from this new Fed
Chair? What's the message for them?
>> Well, I I think he wants us to reiterate
the main message, right? He said the
other, you know, useful thing is is
everyone here in the in the room helps
to amplify. I don't know if he said
that, but I think it was implied. You
help to amplify that message. And the
message was the recommitment to the
Fed's stability rate,
stability of prices goal. And I think
that's the message that he wanted to get
out, the recommitment to the attainment
of the goal. And and all the task forces
and everything else around that, it is
really in service of that, in
recognition that for the past 5 years,
there's clearly been
a failing on that part on that part.
>> Jeffrey Rosenberg of BlackRock, thank
you so much for being with us and
breaking it all down. Keep more Jim
Bianco, you're still here. Jim, final
thoughts on exactly what we have
experienced in this history-making day.
>> That we're going to see a different type
of Fed right now with a different type
of objective and communication style and
that that's not necessarily a bad thing.
I think the market reaction is
appropriate because part of the path
that they're going to go on is going to
follow a lot of the other central banks.
In the last week, the ECB's raised
rates, the Bank of Japan has raised
rates and now the Federal Reserve is
suggesting that they're going to raise
rates, too. So, they're all moving in
that direction.
>> Kate?
>> I love the overall message again uh
around working with the rest of the
FOMC, around bringing in outside voices
to these task forces. Um but I do want
to say something. It's important to to
reiterate that commitment to price
stability and to the target, but there's
a phrase I keep coming back into my mind
with which is your action speaks so
loudly I can't hear what you're saying.
So, let's see if there's follow-through
in terms of action and not just trying
to jawbone the market to say, "Hey, we
do care about it, but we're not taking
the necessary policy actions in order to
get us closer to that goal." So, I'll be
watching very closely what happens over
kind of the next, you know, 6 to 12
weeks in these next couple meetings.
>> Kate Moore, Jim Bianco, both of you,
thank you so much for being here. Scott,
we're seeing some pretty big moves. I
mean, in particular, looking at the
Japanese yen. Now, the weakest versus
the dollar going back to 2024, we're
seeing all sorts of sell-offs in various
equity markets. A big day for the
broader Wall Street market.
>> our father's Federal Reserve.
>> Or maybe it is. Maybe that's the whole
thing. Maybe this is your father's
Federal Reserve.
>> Depending on when you're born.
>> Exactly. It's maybe a hearkening back to
days of yore when this was a shorter
statement, when the balance sheet was
not a big tool. What a day,
history-making from New York City to our
TV and radio audience worldwide. That
does it for us. This was the Fed
decides.